Sister Carrieby Theodore Dreiser

Chapter I

THE MAGNET ATTRACTING--A WAIF AMID FORCES

When Caroline Meeber boarded the afternoon train for Chicago, hertotal outfit consisted of a small trunk, a cheap imitationalligator-skin satchel, a small lunch in a paper box, and ayellow leather snap purse, containing her ticket, a scrap ofpaper with her sister's address in Van Buren Street, and fourdollars in money.  It was in August, 1889.  She was eighteenyears of age, bright, timid, and full of the illusions ofignorance and youth.  Whatever touch of regret at partingcharacterised her thoughts, it was certainly not for advantagesnow being given up.  A gush of tears at her mother's farewellkiss, a touch in her throat when the cars clacked by the flourmill where her father worked by the day, a pathetic sigh as thefamiliar green environs of the village passed in review, and thethreads which bound her so lightly to girlhood and home wereirretrievably broken.

To be sure there was always the next station, where one mightdescend and return.  There was the great city, bound more closelyby these very trains which came up daily.  Columbia City was notso very far away, even once she was in Chicago.  What, pray, is afew hours--a few hundred miles?  She looked at the little slipbearing her sister's address and wondered.  She gazed at thegreen landscape, now passing in swift review, until her swifterthoughts replaced its impression with vague conjectures of whatChicago might be.

When a girl leaves her home at eighteen, she does one of twothings.  Either she falls into saving hands and becomes better,or she rapidly assumes the cosmopolitan standard of virtue andbecomes worse.  Of an intermediate balance, under thecircumstances, there is no possibility.  The city has its cunningwiles, no less than the infinitely smaller and more humantempter.  There are large forces which allure with all thesoulfulness of expression possible in the most cultured human.The gleam of a thousand lights is often as effective as thepersuasive light in a wooing and fascinating eye.  Half theundoing of the unsophisticated and natural mind is accomplishedby forces wholly superhuman.  A blare of sound, a roar of life, avast array of human hives, appeal to the astonished senses inequivocal terms.  Without a counsellor at hand to whispercautious interpretations, what falsehoods may not these thingsbreathe into the unguarded ear!  Unrecognised for what they are,their beauty, like music, too often relaxes, then weakens, thenperverts the simpler human perceptions.

Caroline, or Sister Carrie, as she had been half affectionatelytermed by the family, was possessed of a mind rudimentary in itspower of observation and analysis.  Self-interest with her washigh, but not strong.  It was, nevertheless, her guidingcharacteristic.  Warm with the fancies of youth, pretty with theinsipid prettiness of the formative period, possessed of a figurepromising eventual shapeliness and an eye alight with certainnative intelligence, she was a fair example of the middleAmerican class--two generations removed from the emigrant.  Bookswere beyond her interest--knowledge a sealed book.  In theintuitive graces she was still crude.  She could scarcely tossher head gracefully.  Her hands were almost ineffectual.  Thefeet, though small, were set flatly.  And yet she was interestedin her charms, quick to understand the keener pleasures of life,ambitious to gain in material things.  A half-equipped littleknight she was, venturing to reconnoitre the mysterious city anddreaming wild dreams of some vague, far-off supremacy, whichshould make it prey and subject--the proper penitent, grovellingat a woman's slipper.

"That," said a voice in her ear, "is one of the prettiest littleresorts in Wisconsin."

"Is it?" she answered nervously.

The train was just pulling out of Waukesha.  For some time shehad been conscious of a man behind.  She felt him observing hermass of hair.  He had been fidgetting, and with natural intuitionshe felt a certain interest growing in that quarter.  Hermaidenly reserve, and a certain sense of what was conventionalunder the circumstances, called her to forestall and deny thisfamiliarity, but the daring and magnetism of the individual, bornof past experiences and triumphs, prevailed.  She answered.

He leaned forward to put his elbows upon the back of her seat andproceeded to make himself volubly agreeable.

"Yes, that is a great resort for Chicago people.  The hotels areswell.  You are not familiar with this part of the country, areyou?"

"Oh, yes, I am," answered Carrie.  "That is, I live at ColumbiaCity.  I have never been through here, though."

"And so this is your first visit to Chicago," he observed.

All the time she was conscious of certain features out of theside of her eye.  Flush, colourful cheeks, a light moustache, agrey fedora hat.  She now turned and looked upon him in full, theinstincts of self-protection and coquetry mingling confusedly inher brain.

"I didn't say that," she said.

"Oh," he answered, in a very pleasing way and with an assumed airof mistake, "I thought you did."

Here was a type of the travelling canvasser for a manufacturinghouse--a class which at that time was first being dubbed by theslang of the day "drummers." He came within the meaning of astill newer term, which had sprung into general use amongAmericans in 1880, and which concisely expressed the thought ofone whose dress or manners are calculated to elicit theadmiration of susceptible young women--a "masher."  His suit wasof a striped and crossed pattern of brown wool, new at that time,but since become familiar as a business suit.  The low crotch ofthe vest revealed a stiff shirt bosom of white and pink stripes.From his coat sleeves protruded a pair of linen cuffs of the samepattern, fastened with large, gold plate buttons, set with thecommon yellow agates known as "cat's-eyes."  His fingers boreseveral rings--one, the ever-enduring heavy seal--and from hisvest dangled a neat gold watch chain, from which was suspendedthe secret insignia of the Order of Elks.  The whole suit wasrather tight-fitting, and was finished off with heavy-soled tanshoes, highly polished, and the grey fedora hat.  He was, for theorder of intellect represented, attractive, and whatever he hadto recommend him, you may be sure was not lost upon Carrie, inthis, her first glance.

Lest this order of individual should permanently pass, let me putdown some of the most striking characteristics of his mostsuccessful manner and method.  Good clothes, of course, were thefirst essential, the things without which he was nothing.  Astrong physical nature, actuated by a keen desire for thefeminine, was the next.  A mind free of any consideration of theproblems or forces of the world and actuated not by greed, but aninsatiable love of variable pleasure.  His method was alwayssimple.  Its principal element was daring, backed, of course, byan intense desire and admiration for the sex.  Let him meet witha young woman once and he would approach her with an air ofkindly familiarity, not unmixed with pleading, which would resultin most cases in a tolerant acceptance.  If she showed anytendency to coquetry he would be apt to straighten her tie, or ifshe "took up" with him at all, to call her by her first name.  Ifhe visited a department store it was to lounge familiarly overthe counter and ask some leading questions.  In more exclusivecircles, on the train or in waiting stations, he went slower.  Ifsome seemingly vulnerable object appeared he was all attention--to pass the compliments of the day, to lead the way to the parlorcar, carrying her grip, or, failing that, to take a seat next herwith the hope of being able to court her to her destination.Pillows, books, a footstool, the shade lowered; all these figuredin the things which he could do.  If, when she reached herdestination he did not alight and attend her baggage for her, itwas because, in his own estimation, he had signally failed.

A woman should some day write the complete philosophy of clothes.No matter how young, it is one of the things she whollycomprehends.  There is an indescribably faint line in the matterof man's apparel which somehow divides for her those who areworth glancing at and those who are not.  Once an individual haspassed this faint line on the way downward he will get no glancefrom her.  There is another line at which the dress of a man willcause her to study her own. This line the individual at her elbownow marked for Carrie.  She became conscious of an inequality.Her own plain blue dress, with its black cotton tape trimmings,now seemed to her shabby.  She felt the worn state of her shoes.

"Let's see," he went on, "I know quite a number of people in yourtown.  Morgenroth the clothier and Gibson the dry goods man."

"Oh, do you?" she interrupted, aroused by memories of longingstheir show windows had cost her.

At last he had a clew to her interest, and followed it deftly.In a few minutes he had come about into her seat.  He talked ofsales of clothing, his travels, Chicago, and the amusements ofthat city.

"If you are going there, you will enjoy it immensely. Have yourelatives?"

"I am going to visit my sister," she explained.

"You want to see Lincoln Park," he said, "and Michigan Boulevard.They are putting up great buildings there. It's a second NewYork--great.  So much to see--theatres, crowds, fine houses--oh,you'll like that."

There was a little ache in her fancy of all he described.  Herinsignificance in the presence of so much magnificence faintlyaffected her.  She realised that hers was not to be a round ofpleasure, and yet there was something promising in all thematerial prospect he set forth.  There was something satisfactoryin the attention of this individual with his good clothes.  Shecould not help smiling as he told her of some popular actress ofwhom she reminded him.  She was not silly, and yet attention ofthis sort had its weight.

"You will be in Chicago some little time, won't you?" he observedat one turn of the now easy conversation.

"I don't know," said Carrie vaguely--a flash vision of thepossibility of her not securing employment rising in her mind.

"Several weeks, anyhow," he said, looking steadily into her eyes.

There was much more passing now than the mere words indicated.He recognised the indescribable thing that made up forfascination and beauty in her.  She realised that she was ofinterest to him from the one standpoint which a woman bothdelights in and fears. Her manner was simple, though for the veryreason that she had not yet learned the many little affectationswith which women conceal their true feelings.  Some things shedid appeared bold.  A clever companion--had she ever had one--would have warned her never to look a man in the eyes sosteadily.

"Why do you ask?" she said.

"Well, I'm going to be there several weeks.  I'm going to studystock at our place and get new samples.  I might show you'round."

"I don't know whether you can or not.  I mean I don't knowwhether I can.  I shall be living with my sister, and----"

"Well, if she minds, we'll fix that."  He took out his pencil anda little pocket note-book as if it were all settled.  "What isyour address there?"

She fumbled her purse which contained the address slip.

He reached down in his hip pocket and took out a fat purse.  Itwas filled with slips of paper, some mileage books, a roll ofgreenbacks.  It impressed her deeply. Such a purse had never beencarried by any one attentive to her.  Indeed, an experiencedtraveller, a brisk man of the world, had never come within suchclose range before.  The purse, the shiny tan shoes, the smartnew suit, and the air with which he did things, built up for hera dim world of fortune, of which he was the centre.  It disposedher pleasantly toward all he might do.

He took out a neat business card, on which was engraved Bartlett,Caryoe & Company, and down in the left-hand corner, Chas. H.Drouet.

"That's me," he said, putting the card in her hand and touchinghis name.  "It's pronounced Drew-eh.  Our family was French, onmy father's side."

She looked at it while he put up his purse.  Then he got out aletter from a bunch in his coat pocket. "This is the house Itravel for," he went on, pointing to a picture on it, "corner ofState and Lake."  There was pride in his voice.  He felt that itwas something to be connected with such a place, and he made herfeel that way.

"What is your address?" he began again, fixing his pencil towrite.

She looked at his hand.

"Carrie Meeber," she said slowly.  "Three hundred and fifty-fourWest Van Buren Street, care S. C. Hanson."

He wrote it carefully down and got out the purse again. "You'llbe at home if I come around Monday night?" he said.

"I think so," she answered.

How true it is that words are but the vague shadows of thevolumes we mean.  Little audible links, they are, chainingtogether great inaudible feelings and purposes.  Here were thesetwo, bandying little phrases, drawing purses, looking at cards,and both unconscious of how inarticulate all their real feelingswere.  Neither was wise enough to be sure of the working of themind of the other.  He could not tell how his luring succeeded.She could not realise that she was drifting, until he secured heraddress.  Now she felt that she had yielded something--he, thathe had gained a victory.  Already they felt that they weresomehow associated.  Already he took control in directing theconversation.  His words were easy.  Her manner was relaxed.

They were nearing Chicago.  Signs were everywhere numerous.Trains flashed by them.  Across wide stretches of flat, openprairie they could see lines of telegraph poles stalking acrossthe fields toward the great city.  Far away were indications ofsuburban towns, some big smokestacks towering high in the air.

Frequently there were two-story frame houses standing out in theopen fields, without fence or trees, lone outposts of theapproaching army of homes.

To the child, the genius with imagination, or the whollyuntravelled, the approach to a great city for the first time is awonderful thing.  Particularly if it be evening--that mysticperiod between the glare and gloom of the world when life ischanging from one sphere or condition to another.  Ah, thepromise of the night.  What does it not hold for the weary!  Whatold illusion of hope is not here forever repeated!  Says the soulof the toiler to itself, "I shall soon be free.  I shall be inthe ways and the hosts of the merry.  The streets, the lamps, thelighted chamber set for dining, are for me.  The theatre, thehalls, the parties, the ways of rest and the paths of song--theseare mine in the night."  Though all humanity be still enclosed inthe shops, the thrill runs abroad.  It is in the air.  Thedullest feel something which they may not always express ordescribe.  It is the lifting of the burden of toil.

Sister Carrie gazed out of the window.  Her companion, affectedby her wonder, so contagious are all things, felt anew someinterest in the city and pointed out its marvels.

"This is Northwest Chicago," said Drouet.  "This is the ChicagoRiver," and he pointed to a little muddy creek, crowded with thehuge masted wanderers from far-off waters nosing the black-postedbanks.  With a puff, a clang, and a clatter of rails it was gone."Chicago is getting to be a great town," he went on.  "It's awonder.  You'll find lots to see here."

She did not hear this very well.  Her heart was troubled by akind of terror.  The fact that she was alone, away from home,rushing into a great sea of life and endeavour, began to tell.She could not help but feel a little choked for breath--a littlesick as her heart beat so fast.  She half closed her eyes andtried to think it was nothing, that Columbia City was only alittle way off.

"Chicago!  Chicago!" called the brakeman, slamming open the door.They were rushing into a more crowded yard, alive with theclatter and clang of life.  She began to gather up her poorlittle grip and closed her hand firmly upon her purse.  Drouetarose, kicked his legs to straighten his trousers, and seized hisclean yellow grip.

"I suppose your people will be here to meet you?" he said.  "Letme carry your grip."

"Oh, no," she said.  "I'd rather you wouldn't.  I'd rather youwouldn't be with me when I meet my sister."

"All right," he said in all kindness.  "I'll be near, though, incase she isn't here, and take you out there safely."

"You're so kind," said Carrie, feeling the goodness of suchattention in her strange situation.

"Chicago!" called the brakeman, drawing the word out long.  Theywere under a great shadowy train shed, where the lamps werealready beginning to shine out, with passenger cars all about andthe train moving at a snail's pace.  The people in the car wereall up and crowding about the door.

"Well, here we are," said Drouet, leading the way to the door."Good-bye, till I see you Monday."

"Good-bye," she answered, taking his proffered hand.

"Remember, I'll be looking till you find your sister."

She smiled into his eyes.

They filed out, and he affected to take no notice of her.  Alean-faced, rather commonplace woman recognised Carrie on theplatform and hurried forward.

"Why, Sister Carrie!" she began, and there was embrace ofwelcome.

Carrie realised the change of affectional atmosphere at once.Amid all the maze, uproar, and novelty she felt cold realitytaking her by the hand.  No world of light and merriment.  Noround of amusement.  Her sister carried with her most of thegrimness of shift and toil.

"Why, how are all the folks at home?" she began; "how is father,and mother?"

Carrie answered, but was looking away.  Down the aisle, towardthe gate leading into the waiting-room and the street, stoodDrouet.  He was looking back.  When he saw that she saw him andwas safe with her sister he turned to go, sending back the shadowof a smile.  Only Carrie saw it.  She felt something lost to herwhen he moved away.  When he disappeared she felt his absencethoroughly.  With her sister she was much alone, a lone figure ina tossing, thoughtless sea.

Chapter II

WHAT POVERTY THREATENED--OF GRANITE AND BRASS

Minnie's flat, as the one-floor resident apartments were thenbeing called, was in a part of West Van Buren Street inhabited byfamilies of labourers and clerks, men who had come, and werestill coming, with the rush of population pouring in at the rateof 50,000 a year. It was on the third floor, the front windowslooking down into the street, where, at night, the lights ofgrocery stores were shining and children were playing. To Carrie,the sound of the little bells upon the horse-cars, as theytinkled in and out of hearing, was as pleasing as it was novel.She gazed into the lighted street when Minnie brought her intothe front room, and wondered at the sounds, the movement, themurmur of the vast city which stretched for miles and miles inevery direction.

Mrs. Hanson, after the first greetings were over, gave Carrie thebaby and proceeded to get supper.  Her husband asked a fewquestions and sat down to read the evening paper.  He was asilent man, American born, of a Swede father, and now employed asa cleaner of refrigerator cars at the stock-yards.  To him thepresence or absence of his wife's sister was a matter ofindifference.  Her personal appearance did not affect him one wayor the other.  His one observation to the point was concerningthe chances of work in Chicago.

"It's a big place," he said.  "You can get in somewhere in a fewdays.  Everybody does."

It had been tacitly understood beforehand that she was to getwork and pay her board.  He was of a clean, saving disposition,and had already paid a number of monthly instalments on two lotsfar out on the West Side.  His ambition was some day to build ahouse on them.

In the interval which marked the preparation of the meal Carriefound time to study the flat.  She had some slight gift ofobservation and that sense, so rich in every woman--intuition.

She felt the drag of a lean and narrow life.  The walls of therooms were discordantly papered.  The floors were covered withmatting and the hall laid with a thin rag carpet.  One could seethat the furniture was of that poor, hurriedly patched togetherquality sold by the instalment houses.

She sat with Minnie, in the kitchen, holding the baby until itbegan to cry.  Then she walked and sang to it, until Hanson,disturbed in his reading, came and took it.  A pleasant side tohis nature came out here.  He was patient.  One could see that hewas very much wrapped up in his offspring.

"Now, now," he said, walking.  "There, there," and there was acertain Swedish accent noticeable in his voice.

"You'll want to see the city first, won't you?" said Minnie, whenthey were eating.  "Well, we'll go out Sunday and see LincolnPark.

Carrie noticed that Hanson had said nothing to this. He seemed tobe thinking of something else.

"Well," she said, "I think I'll look around tomorrow. I've gotFriday and Saturday, and it won't be any trouble.  Which way isthe business part?"

Minnie began to explain, but her husband took this part of theconversation to himself.

"It's that way," he said, pointing east.  "That's east."  Then hewent off into the longest speech he had yet indulged in,concerning the lay of Chicago.  "You'd better look in those bigmanufacturing houses along Franklin Street and just the otherside of the river," he concluded.  "Lots of girls work there.You could get home easy, too.  It isn't very far."

Carrie nodded and asked her sister about the neighbourhood.  Thelatter talked in a subdued tone, telling the little she knewabout it, while Hanson concerned himself with the baby.  Finallyhe jumped up and handed the child to his wife.

"I've got to get up early in the morning, so I'll go to bed," andoff he went, disappearing into the dark little bedroom off thehall, for the night.

"He works way down at the stock-yards," explained Minnie, "sohe's got to get up at half-past five."

"What time do you get up to get breakfast?" asked Carrie.

"At about twenty minutes of five."

Together they finished the labour of the day, Carrie washing thedishes while Minnie undressed the baby and put it to bed.Minnie's manner was one of trained industry, and Carrie could seethat it was a steady round of toil with her.

She began to see that her relations with Drouet would have to beabandoned.  He could not come here.  She read from the manner ofHanson, in the subdued air of Minnie, and, indeed, the wholeatmosphere of the flat, a settled opposition to anything save aconservative round of toil.  If Hanson sat every evening in thefront room and read his paper, if he went to bed at nine, andMinnie a little later, what would they expect of her?  She sawthat she would first need to get work and establish herself on apaying basis before she could think of having company of anysort.  Her little flirtation with Drouet seemed now anextraordinary thing.

"No," she said to herself, "he can't come here."

She asked Minnie for ink and paper, which were upon the mantel inthe dining-room, and when the latter had gone to bed at ten, gotout Drouet's card and wrote him.

"I cannot have you call on me here.  You will have to wait untilyou hear from me again.  My sister's place is so small."

She troubled herself over what else to put in the letter.  Shewanted to make some reference to their relations upon the train,but was too timid.  She concluded by thanking him for hiskindness in a crude way, then puzzled over the formality ofsigning her name, and finally decided upon the severe, winding upwith a "Very truly," which she subsequently changed to"Sincerely."  She scaled and addressed the letter, and going inthe front room, the alcove of which contained her bed, drew theone small rocking-chair up to the open window, and sat lookingout upon the night and streets in silent wonder.  Finally,wearied by her own reflections, she began to grow dull in herchair, and feeling the need of sleep, arranged her clothing forthe night and went to bed.

When she awoke at eight the next morning, Hanson had gone.  Hersister was busy in the dining-room, which was also the sitting-room, sewing.  She worked, after dressing, to arrange a littlebreakfast for herself, and then advised with Minnie as to whichway to look. The latter had changed considerably since Carrie hadseen her.  She was now a thin, though rugged, woman of twenty-seven, with ideas of life coloured by her husband's, and fasthardening into narrower conceptions of pleasure and duty than hadever been hers in a thoroughly circumscribed youth.  She hadinvited Carrie, not because she longed for her presence, butbecause the latter was dissatisfied at home, and could probablyget work and pay her board here.  She was pleased to see her in away but reflected her husband's point of view in the matter ofwork.  Anything was good enough so long as it paid--say, fivedollars a week to begin with.  A shop girl was the destinyprefigured for the newcomer.  She would get in one of the greatshops and do well enough until--well, until something happened.Neither of them knew exactly what.  They did not figure onpromotion.  They did not exactly count on marriage.  Things wouldgo on, though, in a dim kind of way until the better thing wouldeventuate, and Carrie would be rewarded for coming and toiling inthe city. It was under such auspicious circumstances that shestarted out this morning to look for work.

Before following her in her round of seeking, let us look at thesphere in which her future was to lie.  In 1889 Chicago had thepeculiar qualifications of growth which made such adventuresomepilgrimages even on the part of young girls plausible.  Its manyand growing commercial opportunities gave it widespread fame,which made of it a giant magnet, drawing to itself, from allquarters, the hopeful and the hopeless--those who had theirfortune yet to make and those whose fortunes and affairs hadreached a disastrous climax elsewhere.  It was a city of over500,000, with the ambition, the daring, the activity of ametropolis of a million.  Its streets and houses were alreadyscattered over an area of seventy-five square miles.  Itspopulation was not so much thriving upon established commerce asupon the industries which prepared for the arrival of others. Thesound of the hammer engaged upon the erection of new structureswas everywhere heard.  Great industries were moving in.  The hugerailroad corporations which had long before recognised theprospects of the place had seized upon vast tracts of land fortransfer and shipping purposes.  Street-car lines had beenextended far out into the open country in anticipation of rapidgrowth.  The city had laid miles and miles of streets and sewersthrough regions where, perhaps, one solitary house stood outalone--a pioneer of the populous ways to be.  There were regionsopen to the sweeping winds and rain, which were yet lightedthroughout the night with long, blinking lines of gas-lamps,fluttering in the wind.  Narrow board walks extended out, passinghere a house, and there a store, at far intervals, eventuallyending on the open prairie.

In the central portion was the vast wholesale and shoppingdistrict, to which the uninformed seeker for work usuallydrifted.  It was a characteristic of Chicago then, and one notgenerally shared by other cities, that individual firms of anypretension occupied individual buildings.  The presence of ampleground made this possible.  It gave an imposing appearance tomost of the wholesale houses, whose offices were upon the groundfloor and in plain view of the street.  The large plates ofwindow glass, now so common, were then rapidly coming into use,and gave to the ground floor offices a distinguished andprosperous look.  The casual wanderer could see as he passed apolished array of office fixtures, much frosted glass, clerkshard at work, and genteel businessmen in "nobby" suits and cleanlinen lounging about or sitting in groups.  Polished brass ornickel signs at the square stone entrances announced the firm andthe nature of the business in rather neat and reserved terms.The entire metropolitan centre possessed a high and mighty aircalculated to overawe and abash the common applicant, and to makethe gulf between poverty and success seem both wide and deep.

Into this important commercial region the timid Carrie went.  Shewalked east along Van Buren Street through a region of lesseningimportance, until it deteriorated into a mass of shanties andcoal-yards, and finally verged upon the river.  She walkedbravely forward, led by an honest desire to find employment anddelayed at every step by the interest of the unfolding scene, anda sense of helplessness amid so much evidence of power and forcewhich she did not understand.  These vast buildings, what werethey?  These strange energies and huge interests, for whatpurposes were they there?  She could have understood the meaningof a little stone-cutter's yard at Columbia City, carving littlepieces of marble for individual use, but when the yards of somehuge stone corporation came into view, filled with spur tracksand flat cars, transpierced by docks from the river and traversedoverhead by immense trundling cranes of wood and steel, it lostall significance in her little world.

It was so with the vast railroad yards, with the crowded array ofvessels she saw at the river, and the huge factories over theway, lining the water's edge. Through the open windows she couldsee the figures of men and women in working aprons, moving busilyabout. The great streets were wall-lined mysteries to her; thevast offices, strange mazes which concerned far-off individualsof importance.  She could only think of people connected withthem as counting money, dressing magnificently, and riding incarriages.  What they dealt in, how they laboured, to what end itall came, she had only the vaguest conception.  It was allwonderful, all vast, all far removed, and she sank in spiritinwardly and fluttered feebly at the heart as she thought ofentering any one of these mighty concerns and asking forsomething to do--something that she could do--anything.

Chapter III

WEE QUESTION OF FORTUNE--FOUR-FIFTY A WEEK

Once across the river and into the wholesale district, sheglanced about her for some likely door at which to apply.  As shecontemplated the wide windows and imposing signs, she becameconscious of being gazed upon and understood for what she was--awage-seeker. She had never done this thing before, and lackedcourage.   To avoid a certain indefinable shame she felt at beingcaught spying about for a position, she quickened her steps andassumed an air of indifference supposedly common to one upon anerrand.  In this way she passed many manufacturing and wholesalehouses without once glancing in.  At last, after several blocksof walking, she felt that this would not do, and began to lookabout again, though without relaxing her pace.  A little way onshe saw a great door which, for some reason, attracted herattention.  It was ornamented by a small brass sign, and seemedto be the entrance to a vast hive of six or seven floors."Perhaps," she thought, "they may want some one," and crossedover to enter.  When she came within a score of feet of thedesired goal, she saw through the window a young man in a greychecked suit.  That he had anything to do with the concern, shecould not tell, but because he happened to be looking in herdirection her weakening heart misgave her and she hurried by, tooovercome with shame to enter.  Over the way stood a great six-story structure, labelled Storm and King, which she viewed withrising hope.  It was a wholesale dry goods concern and employedwomen.  She could see them moving about now and then upon theupper floors. This place she decided to enter, no matter what.She crossed over and walked directly toward the entrance. As shedid so, two men came out and paused in the door. A telegraphmessenger in blue dashed past her and up the few steps that ledto the entrance and disappeared. Several pedestrians out of thehurrying throng which filled the sidewalks passed about her asshe paused, hesitating.  She looked helplessly around, and then,seeing herself observed, retreated.  It was too difficult a task.She could not go past them.

So severe a defeat told sadly upon her nerves.  Her feet carriedher mechanically forward, every foot of her progress being asatisfactory portion of a flight which she gladly made.  Blockafter block passed by. Upon streetlamps at the various cornersshe read names such as Madison, Monroe, La Salle, Clark,Dearborn, State, and still she went, her feet beginning to tireupon the broad stone flagging.  She was pleased in part that thestreets were bright and clean.  The morning sun, shining downwith steadily increasing warmth, made the shady side of thestreets pleasantly cool. She looked at the blue sky overhead withmore realisation of its charm than had ever come to her before.

Her cowardice began to trouble her in a way.  She turned back,resolving to hunt up Storm and King and enter.  On the way, sheencountered a great wholesale shoe company, through the broadplate windows of which she saw an enclosed executive department,hidden by frosted glass.  Without this enclosure, but just withinthe street entrance, sat a grey-haired gentleman at a smalltable, with a large open ledger before him.  She walked by thisinstitution several times hesitating, but, finding herselfunobserved, faltered past the screen door and stood humblewaiting.

"Well, young lady," observed the old gentleman, looking at hersomewhat kindly, "what is it you wish?"

"I am, that is, do you--I mean, do you need any help?" shestammered.

"Not just at present," he answered smiling.  "Not just atpresent.  Come in some time next week.  Occasionally we need someone."

She received the answer in silence and backed awkwardly out.  Thepleasant nature of her reception rather astonished her.  She hadexpected that it would be more difficult, that something cold andharsh would be said--she knew not what.  That she had not beenput to shame and made to feel her unfortunate position, seemedremarkable.

Somewhat encouraged, she ventured into another large structure.It was a clothing company, and more people were in evidence--well-dressed men of forty and more, surrounded by brass railings.

An office boy approached her.

"Who is it you wish to see?" he asked.

"I want to see the manager," she said.He ran away and spoke to one of a group of three men who wereconferring together.  One of these came towards her.

"Well?" he said coldly.  The greeting drove all courage from herat once.

"Do you need any help?" she stammered.

"No," he replied abruptly, and turned upon his heel.

She went foolishly out, the office boy deferentially swinging thedoor for her, and gladly sank into the obscuring crowd.  It was asevere setback to her recently pleased mental state.

Now she walked quite aimlessly for a time, turning here andthere, seeing one great company after another, but finding nocourage to prosecute her single inquiry. High noon came, and withit hunger.  She hunted out an unassuming restaurant and entered,but was disturbed to find that the prices were exorbitant for thesize of her purse.  A bowl of soup was all that she could afford,and, with this quickly eaten, she went out again.  It restoredher strength somewhat and made her moderately bold to pursue thesearch.

In walking a few blocks to fix upon some probable place, sheagain encountered the firm of Storm and King, and this timemanaged to get in.  Some gentlemen were conferring close at hand,but took no notice of her.  She was left standing, gazingnervously upon the floor.  When the limit of her distress hadbeen nearly reached, she was beckoned to by a man at one of themany desks within the near-by railing.

"Who is it you wish to see?" he required.

"Why, any one, if you please," she answered.  "I am looking forsomething to do."

"Oh, you want to see Mr. McManus," he returned.  "Sit down," andhe pointed to a chair against the neighbouring wall.  He went onleisurely writing, until after a time a short, stout gentlemancame in from the street.

"Mr. McManus," called the man at the desk, "this young womanwants to see you."

The short gentleman turned about towards Carrie, and she aroseand came forward.

"What can I do for you, miss?" he inquired, surveying hercuriously.

"I want to know if I can get a position," she inquired.

"As what?" he asked.

"Not as anything in particular," she faltered.

"Have you ever had any experience in the wholesale dry goodsbusiness?" he questioned.

"No, sir," she replied.

"Are you a stenographer or typewriter?"

"No, sir.""Well, we haven't anything here," he said.  "We employ onlyexperienced help."

She began to step backward toward the door, when something abouther plaintive face attracted him.

"Have you ever worked at anything before?" he inquired.

"No, sir," she said.

"Well, now, it's hardly possible that you would get anything todo in a wholesale house of this kind.  Have you tried thedepartment stores?"

She acknowledged that she had not.

"Well, if I were you," he said, looking at her rather genially,"I would try the department stores.  They often need young womenas clerks."

"Thank you," she said, her whole nature relieved by this spark offriendly interest.

"Yes," he said, as she moved toward the door, "you try thedepartment stores," and off he went.

At that time the department store was in its earliest form ofsuccessful operation, and there were not many. The first three inthe United States, established about 1884, were in Chicago.Carrie was familiar with the names of several through theadvertisements in the "Daily News," and now proceeded to seekthem.  The words of Mr. McManus had somehow managed to restoreher courage, which had fallen low, and she dared to hope thatthis new line would offer her something.  Some time she spent inwandering up and down, thinking to encounter the buildings bychance, so readily is the mind, bent upon prosecuting a hard butneedful errand, eased by that self-deception which the semblanceof search, without the reality, gives.  At last she inquired of apolice officer, and was directed to proceed "two blocks up,"where she would find "The Fair."

The nature of these vast retail combinations, should they everpermanently disappear, will form an interesting chapter in thecommercial history of our nation.  Such a flowering out of amodest trade principle the world had never witnessed up to thattime.  They were along the line of the most effective retailorganisation, with hundreds of stores coordinated into one andlaid out upon the most imposing and economic basis.  They werehandsome, bustling, successful affairs, with a host of clerks anda swarm of patrons.  Carrie passed along the busy aisles, muchaffected by the remarkable displays of trinkets, dress goods,stationery, and jewelry.  Each separate counter was a show placeof dazzling interest and attraction.  She could not help feelingthe claim of each trinket and valuable upon her personally, andyet she did not stop.  There was nothing there which she couldnot have used--nothing which she did not long to own.  The daintyslippers and stockings, the delicately frilled skirts andpetticoats, the laces, ribbons, hair-combs, purses, all touchedher with individual desire, and she felt keenly the fact that notany of these things were in the range of her purchase.  She was awork-seeker, an outcast without employment, one whom the averageemployee could tell at a glance was poor and in need of asituation.

It must not be thought that any one could have mistaken her for anervous, sensitive, high-strung nature, cast unduly upon a cold,calculating, and unpoetic world. Such certainly she was not.  Butwomen are peculiarly sensitive to their adornment.

Not only did Carrie feel the drag of desire for all which was newand pleasing in apparel for women, but she noticed too, with atouch at the heart, the fine ladies who elbowed and ignored her,brushing past in utter disregard of her presence, themselveseagerly enlisted in the materials which the store contained.Carrie was not familiar with the appearance of her more fortunatesisters of the city.  Neither had she before known the nature andappearance of the shop girls with whom she now compared poorly.They were pretty in the main, some even handsome, with an air ofindependence and indifference which added, in the case of themore favoured, a certain piquancy.  Their clothes were neat, inmany instances fine, and wherever she encountered the eye of oneit was only to recognise in it a keen analysis of her ownposition--her individual shortcomings of dress and that shadow ofmanner which she thought must hang about her and make clear toall who and what she was.  A flame of envy lighted in her heart.She realised in a dim way how much the city held--wealth,fashion, ease--every adornment for women, and she longed fordress and beauty with a whole heart.

On the second floor were the managerial offices, to which, aftersome inquiry, she was now directed. There she found other girlsahead of her, applicants like herself, but with more of thatself-satisfied and independent air which experience of the citylends; girls who scrutinised her in a painful manner.  After await of perhaps three-quarters of an hour, she was called inturn.

"Now," said a sharp, quick-mannered Jew, who was sitting at aroll-top desk near the window, "have you ever worked in any otherstore?"

"No, sir," said Carrie.

"Oh, you haven't," he said, eyeing her keenly.

"No, sir," she replied.

"Well, we prefer young women just now with some experience.  Iguess we can't use you."

Carrie stood waiting a moment, hardly certain whether theinterview had terminated.

"Don't wait!" he exclaimed.  "Remember we are very busy here."

Carrie began to move quickly to the door.

"Hold on," he said, calling her back.  "Give me your name andaddress.  We want girls occasionally."

When she had gotten safely into the street, she could scarcelyrestrain the tears.  It was not so much the particular rebuffwhich she had just experienced, but the whole abashing trend ofthe day.  She was tired and nervous.  She abandoned the thoughtof appealing to the other department stores and now wandered on,feeling a certain safety and relief in mingling with the crowd.

In her indifferent wandering she turned into Jackson Street, notfar from the river, and was keeping her way along the south sideof that imposing thoroughfare, when a piece of wrapping paper,written on with marking ink and tacked up on the door, attractedher attention. It read, "Girls wanted--wrappers & stitchers."She hesitated a moment, then entered.

The firm of Speigelheim & Co., makers of boys' caps, occupied onefloor of the building, fifty feet in width and some eighty feetin depth.  It was a place rather dingily lighted, the darkestportions having incandescent lights, filled with machines andwork benches.  At the latter laboured quite a company of girlsand some men.  The former were drabby-looking creatures, stainedin face with oil and dust, clad in thin, shapeless, cottondresses and shod with more or less worn shoes.  Many of them hadtheir sleeves rolled up, revealing bare arms, and in some cases,owing to the heat, their dresses were open at the neck.  Theywere a fair type of nearly the lowest order of shop-girls--careless, slouchy, and more or less pale from confinement.  Theywere not timid, however; were rich in curiosity, and strong indaring and slang.

Carrie looked about her, very much disturbed and quite sure thatshe did not want to work here.  Aside from making heruncomfortable by sidelong glances, no one paid her the leastattention.  She waited until the whole department was aware ofher presence.  Then some word was sent around, and a foreman, inan apron and shirt sleeves, the latter rolled up to hisshoulders, approached.

"Do you want to see me?" he asked.

"Do you need any help?" said Carrie, already learning directnessof address.

"Do you know how to stitch caps?" he returned.

"No, sir," she replied.

"Have you ever had any experience at this kind of work?" heinquired.

She answered that she had not.

"Well," said the foreman, scratching his ear meditatively, "we doneed a stitcher.  We like experienced help, though.  We've hardlygot time to break people in."  He paused and looked away out ofthe window.  "We might, though, put you at finishing," heconcluded reflectively.

"How much do you pay a week?" ventured Carrie, emboldened by acertain softness in the man's manner and his simplicity ofaddress.

"Three and a half," he answered.

"Oh," she was about to exclaim, but checked herself and allowedher thoughts to die without expression.

"We're not exactly in need of anybody," he went on vaguely,looking her over as one would a package.  "You can come on Mondaymorning, though," he added, "and I'll put you to work."

"Thank you," said Carrie weakly.

"If you come, bring an apron," he added.

He walked away and left her standing by the elevator, never somuch as inquiring her name.

While the appearance of the shop and the announcement of theprice paid per week operated very much as a blow to Carrie'sfancy, the fact that work of any kind was offered after so rude around of experience was gratifying.  She could not begin tobelieve that she would take the place, modest as her aspirationswere. She had been used to better than that.  Her mere experienceand the free out-of-door life of the country caused her nature torevolt at such confinement.  Dirt had never been her share.  Hersister's flat was clean. This place was grimy and low, the girlswere careless and hardened.  They must be bad-minded and hearted,she imagined.  Still, a place had been offered her.  SurelyChicago was not so bad if she could find one place in one day.She might find another and better later.

Her subsequent experiences were not of a reassuring nature,however.  From all the more pleasing or imposing places she wasturned away abruptly with the most chilling formality.  In otherswhere she applied only the experienced were required.  She metwith painful rebuffs, the most trying of which had been in amanufacturing cloak house, where she had gone to the fourth floorto inquire.

"No, no," said the foreman, a rough, heavily built individual,who looked after a miserably lighted workshop, "we don't want anyone.  Don't come here."

With the wane of the afternoon went her hopes, her courage, andher strength.  She had been astonishingly persistent.  So earnestan effort was well deserving of a better reward.  On every hand,to her fatigued senses, the great business portion grew larger,harder, more stolid in its indifference.  It seemed as if it wasall closed to her, that the struggle was too fierce for her tohope to do anything at all.  Men and women hurried by in long,shifting lines.  She felt the flow of the tide of effort andinterest--felt her own helplessness without quite realising thewisp on the tide that she was.  She cast about vainly for somepossible place to apply, but found no door which she had thecourage to enter.  It would be the same thing all over.  The oldhumiliation of her plea, rewarded by curt denial.  Sick at heartand in body, she turned to the west, the direction of Minnie'sflat, which she had now fixed in mind, and began that wearisome,baffled retreat which the seeker for employment at nightfall toooften makes.  In passing through Fifth Avenue, south towards VanBuren Street, where she intended to take a car, she passed thedoor of a large wholesale shoe house, through the plate-glasswindows of which she could see a middle-aged gentleman sitting ata small desk.  One of those forlorn impulses which often grow outof a fixed sense of defeat, the last sprouting of a baffled anduprooted growth of ideas, seized upon her.  She walkeddeliberately through the door and up to the gentleman, who lookedat her weary face with partially awakened interest.

"What is it?" he said.

"Can you give me something to do?" said Carrie.

"Now, I really don't know," he said kindly.  "What kind of workis it you want--you're not a typewriter, are you?"

"Oh, no," answered Carrie.

"Well, we only employ book-keepers and typewriters here.  Youmight go around to the side and inquire upstairs.  They did wantsome help upstairs a few days ago.  Ask for Mr. Brown."

She hastened around to the side entrance and was taken up by theelevator to the fourth floor.

"Call Mr. Brown, Willie," said the elevator man to a boy near by.

Willie went off and presently returned with the information thatMr. Brown said she should sit down and that he would be around ina little while.

It was a portion of the stock room which gave no idea of thegeneral character of the place, and Carrie could form no opinionof the nature of the work.

"So you want something to do," said Mr. Brown, after he inquiredconcerning the nature of her errand.  "Have you ever beenemployed in a shoe factory before?"

"No, sir," said Carrie.

"What is your name?" he inquired, and being informed, "Well, Idon't know as I have anything for you.  Would you work for fourand a half a week?"

Carrie was too worn by defeat not to feel that it wasconsiderable.  She had not expected that he would offer her lessthan six.  She acquiesced, however, and he took her name andaddress.

"Well," he said, finally, "you report here at eight o'clockMonday morning.  I think I can find something for you to do."

He left her revived by the possibilities, sure that she had foundsomething at last.  Instantly the blood crept warmly over herbody.  Her nervous tension relaxed. She walked out into the busystreet and discovered a new atmosphere.  Behold, the throng wasmoving with a lightsome step.  She noticed that men and womenwere smiling.  Scraps of conversation and notes of laughterfloated to her.  The air was light.  People were already pouringout of the buildings, their labour ended for the day.  Shenoticed that they were pleased, and thoughts of her sister's homeand the meal that would be awaiting her quickened her steps.  Shehurried on, tired perhaps, but no longer weary of foot.  Whatwould not Minnie say!  Ah, the long winter in Chicago--thelights, the crowd, the amusement!  This was a great, pleasingmetropolis after all.  Her new firm was a goodly institution.Its windows were of huge plate glass.  She could probably do wellthere.  Thoughts of Drouet returned--of the things he had toldher.  She now felt that life was better, that it was livelier,sprightlier.  She boarded a car in the best of spirits, feelingher blood still flowing pleasantly.  She would live in Chicago,her mind kept saying to itself.  She would have a better timethan she had ever had before--she would be happy.

Chapter IV

THE SPENDINGS OF FANCY--FACTS ANSWER WITH SNEERS

For the next two days Carrie indulged in the most high-flownspeculations.

Her fancy plunged recklessly into privileges and amusements whichwould have been much more becoming had she been cradled a childof fortune.  With ready will and quick mental selection shescattered her meagre four-fifty per week with a swift andgraceful hand. Indeed, as she sat in her rocking-chair theseseveral evenings before going to bed and looked out upon thepleasantly lighted street, this money cleared for its prospectivepossessor the way to every joy and every bauble which the heartof woman may desire.  "I will have a fine time," she thought.

Her sister Minnie knew nothing of these rather wild cerebrations,though they exhausted the markets of delight.  She was too busyscrubbing the kitchen woodwork and calculating the purchasingpower of eighty cents for Sunday's dinner.  When Carrie hadreturned home, flushed with her first success and ready, for allher weariness, to discuss the now interesting events which led upto her achievement, the former had merely smiled approvingly andinquired whether she would have to spend any of it for car fare.This consideration had not entered in before, and it did not nowfor long affect the glow of Carrie's enthusiasm.  Disposed as shethen was to calculate upon that vague basis which allows thesubtraction of one sum from another without any perceptiblediminution, she was happy.

When Hanson came home at seven o'clock, he was inclined to be alittle crusty--his usual demeanour before supper.  This nevershowed so much in anything he said as in a certain solemnity ofcountenance and the silent manner in which he slopped about.  Hehad a pair of yellow carpet slippers which he enjoyed wearing,and these he would immediately substitute for his solid pair ofshoes.  This, and washing his face with the aid of common washingsoap until it glowed a shiny red, constituted his onlypreparation for his evening meal. He would then get his eveningpaper and read in silence.

For a young man, this was rather a morbid turn of character, andso affected Carrie.  Indeed, it affected the entire atmosphere ofthe flat, as such things are inclined to do, and gave to hiswife's mind its subdued and tactful turn, anxious to avoidtaciturn replies. Under the influence of Carrie's announcement hebrightened up somewhat.

"You didn't lose any time, did you?" he remarked, smiling alittle.

"No," returned Carrie with a touch of pride.

He asked her one or two more questions and then turned to playwith the baby, leaving the subject until it was brought up againby Minnie at the table.

Carrie, however, was not to be reduced to the common level ofobservation which prevailed in the flat.

"It seems to be such a large company," she said, at one place.

"Great big plate-glass windows and lots of clerks.  The man I sawsaid they hired ever so many people."

"It's not very hard to get work now," put in Hanson, "if you lookright."

Minnie, under the warming influence of Carrie's good spirits andher husband's somewhat conversational mood, began to tell Carrieof some of the well-known things to see--things the enjoyment ofwhich cost nothing.

"You'd like to see Michigan Avenue.  There are such fine houses.It is such a fine street."

"Where is H. R. Jacob's?" interrupted Carrie, mentioning one ofthe theatres devoted to melodrama which went by that name at thetime.

"Oh, it's not very far from here," answered Minnie. "It's inHalstead Street, right up here."

"How I'd like to go there.  I crossed Halstead Street to-day,didn't I?"

At this there was a slight halt in the natural reply. Thoughtsare a strangely permeating factor.  At her suggestion of going tothe theatre, the unspoken shade of disapproval to the doing ofthose things which involved the expenditure of money--shades offeeling which arose in the mind of Hanson and then in Minnie--slightly affected the atmosphere of the table.  Minnie answered"yes," but Carrie could feel that going to the theatre was poorlyadvocated here.  The subject was put off for a little while untilHanson, through with his meal, took his paper and went into thefront room.

When they were alone, the two sisters began a somewhat freerconversation, Carrie interrupting it to hum a little, as theyworked at the dishes.

"I should like to walk up and see Halstead Street, if it isn'ttoo far," said Carrie, after a time.  "Why don't we go to thetheatre to-night?"

"Oh, I don't think Sven would want to go to-night," returnedMinnie.  "He has to get up so early."

"He wouldn't mind--he'd enjoy it," said Carrie.

"No, he doesn't go very often," returned Minnie.

"Well, I'd like to go," rejoined Carrie.  "Let's you and me go."

Minnie pondered a while, not upon whether she could or would go--for that point was already negatively settled with her--but uponsome means of diverting the thoughts of her sister to some othertopic.

"We'll go some other time," she said at last, finding no readymeans of escape.

Carrie sensed the root of the opposition at once.

"I have some money," she said.  "You go with me." Minnie shookher head.

"He could go along," said Carrie.

"No," returned Minnie softly, and rattling the dishes to drownthe conversation.  "He wouldn't."

It had been several years since Minnie had seen Carrie, and inthat time the latter's character had developed a few shades.Naturally timid in all things that related to her ownadvancement, and especially so when without power or resource,her craving for pleasure was so strong that it was the one stayof her nature.  She would speak for that when silent on all else.

"Ask him," she pleaded softly.

Minnie was thinking of the resource which Carrie's board wouldadd.  It would pay the rent and would make the subject ofexpenditure a little less difficult to talk about with herhusband.  But if Carrie was going to think of running around inthe beginning there would be a hitch somewhere.  Unless Carriesubmitted to a solemn round of industry and saw the need of hardwork without longing for play, how was her coming to the city toprofit them?  These thoughts were not those of a cold, hardnature at all.  They were the serious reflections of a mind whichinvariably adjusted itself, without much complaining, to suchsurroundings as its industry could make for it.

At last she yielded enough to ask Hanson.  It was a half-heartedprocedure without a shade of desire on her part.

"Carrie wants us to go to the theatre," she said, looking in uponher husband.  Hanson looked up from his paper, and they exchangeda mild look, which said as plainly as anything: "This isn't whatwe expected."

"I don't care to go," he returned.  "What does she want to see?"

"H. R. Jacob's," said Minnie.

He looked down at his paper and shook his head negatively.

When Carrie saw how they looked upon her proposition, she gaineda still clearer feeling of their way of life.  It weighed on her,but took no definite form of opposition.

"I think I'll go down and stand at the foot of the stairs," shesaid, after a time.

Minnie made no objection to this, and Carrie put on her hat andwent below.

"Where has Carrie gone?" asked Hanson, coming back into thedining-room when he heard the door close.

"She said she was going down to the foot of the stairs," answeredMinnie.  "I guess she just wants to look out a while."

"She oughtn't to be thinking about spending her money on theatresalready, do you think?" he said.

"She just feels a little curious, I guess," ventured Minnie."Everything is so new."

"I don't know," said Hanson, and went over to the baby, hisforehead slightly wrinkled.

He was thinking of a full career of vanity and wastefulness whicha young girl might indulge in, and wondering how Carrie couldcontemplate such a course when she had so little, as yet, withwhich to do.

On Saturday Carrie went out by herself--first toward the river,which interested her, and then back along Jackson Street, whichwas then lined by the pretty houses and fine lawns whichsubsequently caused it to be made into a boulevard.  She wasstruck with the evidences of wealth, although there was, perhaps,not a person on the street worth more than a hundred thousanddollars.  She was glad to be out of the flat, because already shefelt that it was a narrow, humdrum place, and that interest andjoy lay elsewhere.  Her thoughts now were of a more liberalcharacter, and she punctuated them with speculations as to thewhereabouts of Drouet.  She was not sure but that he might callanyhow Monday night, and, while she felt a little disturbed atthe possibility, there was, nevertheless, just the shade of awish that he would.

On Monday she arose early and prepared to go to work. She dressedherself in a worn shirt-waist of dotted blue percale, a skirt oflight-brown serge rather faded, and a small straw hat which shehad worn all summer at Columbia City.  Her shoes were old, andher necktie was in that crumpled, flattened state which time andmuch wearing impart.  She made a very average looking shop-girlwith the exception of her features. These were slightly more eventhan common, and gave her a sweet, reserved, and pleasingappearance.

It is no easy thing to get up early in the morning when one isused to sleeping until seven and eight, as Carrie had been athome.  She gained some inkling of the character of Hanson's lifewhen, half asleep, she looked out into the dining-room at sixo'clock and saw him silently finishing his breakfast.  By thetime she was dressed he was gone, and she, Minnie, and the babyate together, the latter being just old enough to sit in a highchair and disturb the dishes with a spoon. Her spirits weregreatly subdued now when the fact of entering upon strange anduntried duties confronted her.  Only the ashes of all her finefancies were remaining--ashes still concealing, nevertheless, afew red embers of hope.  So subdued was she by her weakeningnerves, that she ate quite in silence going over imaginaryconceptions of the character of the shoe company, the nature ofthe work, her employer's attitude.  She was vaguely feeling thatshe would come in contact with the great owners, that her workwould be where grave, stylishly dressed men occasionally look on.

"Well, good luck," said Minnie, when she was ready to go.  Theyhad agreed it was best to walk, that morning at least, to see ifshe could do it every day--sixty cents a week for car fare beingquite an item under the circumstances.

"I'll tell you how it goes to-night," said Carrie.

Once in the sunlit street, with labourers tramping by in eitherdirection, the horse-cars passing crowded to the rails with thesmall clerks and floor help in the great wholesale houses, andmen and women generally coming out of doors and passing about theneighbourhood, Carrie felt slightly reassured.  In the sunshineof the morning, beneath the wide, blue heavens, with a fresh windastir, what fears, except the most desperate, can find aharbourage?  In the night, or the gloomy chambers of the day,fears and misgivings wax strong, but out in the sunlight thereis, for a time, cessation even of the terror of death.

Carrie went straight forward until she crossed the river, andthen turned into Fifth Avenue.  The thoroughfare, in this part,was like a walled canon of brown stone and dark red brick.  Thebig windows looked shiny and clean.  Trucks were rumbling inincreasing numbers; men and women, girls and boys were movingonward in all directions.  She met girls of her own age, wholooked at her as if with contempt for her diffidence.  Shewondered at the magnitude of this life and at the importance ofknowing much in order to do anything in it at all.  Dread at herown inefficiency crept upon her.  She would not know how, shewould not be quick enough.  Had not all the other places refusedher because she did not know something or other?  She would bescolded, abused, ignominiously discharged.

It was with weak knees and a slight catch in her breathing thatshe came up to the great shoe company at Adams and Fifth Avenueand entered the elevator.  When she stepped out on the fourthfloor there was no one at hand, only great aisles of boxes piledto the ceiling. She stood, very much frightened, awaiting someone.

Presently Mr. Brown came up.  He did not seem to recosnise her.

"What is it you want?" he inquired.

Carrie's heart sank.

"You said I should come this morning to see about work--"

"Oh," he interrupted.  "Um--yes.  What is your name?"

"Carrie Meeber."

"Yes," said he.  "You come with me."

He led the way through dark, box-lined aisles which had the smellof new shoes, until they came to an iron door which opened intothe factory proper.  There was a large, low-ceiled room, withclacking, rattling machines at which men in white shirt sleevesand blue gingham aprons were working.  She followed himdiffidently through the clattering automatons, keeping her eyesstraight before her, and flushing slightly. They crossed to a farcorner and took an elevator to the sixth floor.  Out of the arrayof machines and benches, Mr. Brown signalled a foreman.

"This is the girl," he said, and turning to Carrie, "You go withhim."  He then returned, and Carrie followed her new superior toa little desk in a corner, which he used as a kind of officialcentre.

"You've never worked at anything like this before, have you?" hequestioned, rather sternly.

"No, sir," she answered.

He seemed rather annoyed at having to bother with such help, butput down her name and then led her across to where a line ofgirls occupied stools in front of clacking machines.  On theshoulder of one of the girls who was punching eye-holes in onepiece of the upper, by the aid of the machine, he put his hand.

"You," he said, "show this girl how to do what you're doing.When you get through, come to me."

The girl so addressed rose promptly and gave Carrie her place.

"It isn't hard to do," she said, bending over.  "You just takethis so, fasten it with this clamp, and start the machine."

She suited action to word, fastened the piece of leather, whichwas eventually to form the right half of the upper of a man'sshoe, by little adjustable clamps, and pushed a small steel rodat the side of the machine.  The latter jumped to the task ofpunching, with sharp, snapping clicks, cutting circular bits ofleather out of the side of the upper, leaving the holes whichwere to hold the laces.  After observing a few times, the girllet her work at it alone.  Seeing that it was fairly well done,she went away.

The pieces of leather came from the girl at the machine to herright, and were passed on to the girl at her left.  Carrie saw atonce that an average speed was necessary or the work would pileup on her and all those below would be delayed.  She had no timeto look about, and bent anxiously to her task.  The girls at herleft and right realised her predicament and feelings, and, in away, tried to aid her, as much as they dared, by working slower.

At this task she laboured incessantly for some time, findingrelief from her own nervous fears and imaginings in the humdrum,mechanical movement of the machine.  She felt, as the minutespassed, that the room was not very light.  It had a thick odourof fresh leather, but that did not worry her.  She felt the eyesof the other help upon her, and troubled lest she was not workingfast enough.

Once, when she was fumbling at the little clamp, having made aslight error in setting in the leather, a great hand appearedbefore her eyes and fastened the clamp for her.  It was theforeman.  Her heart thumped so that she could scarcely see to goon.

"Start your machine," he said, "start your machine. Don't keepthe line waiting."

This recovered her sufficiently and she went excitedly on, hardlybreathing until the shadow moved away from behind her.  Then sheheaved a great breath.

As the morning wore on the room became hotter.  She felt the needof a breath of fresh air and a drink of water, but did notventure to stir.  The stool she sat on was without a back orfoot-rest, and she began to feel uncomfortable.  She found, aftera time, that her back was beginning to ache.  She twisted andturned from one position to another slightly different, but itdid not ease her for long.  She was beginning to weary.

"Stand up, why don't you?" said the girl at her right, withoutany form of introduction.  "They won't care."

Carrie looked at her gratefully.  "I guess I will," she said.

She stood up from her stool and worked that way for a while, butit was a more difficult position.  Her neck and shoulders achedin bending over.

The spirit of the place impressed itself on her in a rough way.She did not venture to look around, but above the clack of themachine she could hear an occasional remark.  She could also notea thing or two out of the side of her eye.

"Did you see Harry last night?" said the girl at her left,addressing her neighbour.

"No."

"You ought to have seen the tie he had on.  Gee, but he was amark."

"S-s-t," said the other girl, bending over her work. The first,silenced, instantly assumed a solemn face. The foreman passedslowly along, eyeing each worker distinctly.  The moment he wasgone, the conversation was resumed again.

"Say," began the girl at her left, "what jeh think he said?"

"I don't know."

"He said he saw us with Eddie Harris at Martin's last night.""No!"  They both giggled.

A youth with tan-coloured hair, that needed clipping very badly,came shuffling along between the machines, bearing a basket ofleather findings under his left arm, and pressed against hisstomach.  When near Carrie, he stretched out his right hand andgripped one girl under the arm.

"Aw, let me go," she exclaimed angrily.  "Duffer."

He only grinned broadly in return.

"Rubber!" he called back as she looked after him. There wasnothing of the gallant in him.

Carrie at last could scarcely sit still.  Her legs began to tireand she wanted to get up and stretch. Would noon never come?  Itseemed as if she had worked an entire day.  She was not hungry atall, but weak, and her eyes were tired, straining at the onepoint where the eye-punch came down.  The girl at the rightnoticed her squirmings and felt sorry for her.  She wasconcentrating herself too thoroughly--what she did reallyrequired less mental and physical strain.  There was nothing tobe done, however.  The halves of the uppers came piling steadilydown.  Her hands began to ache at the wrists and then in thefingers, and towards the last she seemed one mass of dull,complaining muscles, fixed in an eternal position and performinga single mechanical movement which became more and moredistasteful, until as last it was absolutely nauseating.  Whenshe was wondering whether the strain would ever cease, a dull-sounding bell clanged somewhere down an elevator shaft, and theend came.  In an instant there was a buzz of action andconversation. All the girls instantly left their stools andhurried away in an adjoining room, men passed through, comingfrom some department which opened on the right.  The whirlingwheels began to sing in a steadily modifying key, until at lastthey died away in a low buzz.  There was an audible stillness, inwhich the common voice sounded strange.

Carrie got up and sought her lunch box.  She was stiff, a littledizzy, and very thirsty.  On the way to the small space portionedoff by wood, where all the wraps and lunches were kept, sheencountered the foreman, who stared at her hard.

"Well," he said, "did you get along all right?"

"I think so," she replied, very respectfully.

"Um," he replied, for want of something better, and walked on.

Under better material conditions, this kind of work would nothave been so bad, but the new socialism which involves pleasantworking conditions for employees had not then taken hold uponmanufacturing companies.

The place smelled of the oil of the machines and the new leather--a combination which, added to the stale odours of the building,was not pleasant even in cold weather.  The floor, thoughregularly swept every evening, presented a littered surface.  Notthe slightest provision had been made for the comfort of theemployees, the idea being that something was gained by givingthem as little and making the work as hard and unremunerative aspossible.  What we know of foot-rests, swivel-back chairs,dining-rooms for the girls, clean aprons and curling ironssupplied free, and a decent cloak room, were unthought of.  Thewashrooms were disagreeable, crude, if not foul places, and thewhole atmosphere was sordid.

Carrie looked about her, after she had drunk a tinful of waterfrom a bucket in one corner, for a place to sit and eat.  Theother girls had ranged themselves about the windows or the work-benches of those of the men who had gone out.  She saw no placewhich did not hold a couple or a group of girls, and being tootimid to think of intruding herself, she sought out her machineand, seated upon her stool, opened her lunch on her lap.  Thereshe sat listening to the chatter and comment about her.  It was,for the most part, silly and graced by the current slang.Several of the men in the room exchanged compliments with thegirls at long range.

"Say, Kitty," called one to a girl who was doing a waltz step ina few feet of space near one of the windows, "are you going tothe ball with me?"

"Look out, Kitty," called another, "you'll jar your back hair."

"Go on, Rubber," was her only comment.

As Carrie listened to this and much more of similar familiarbadinage among the men and girls, she instinctively withdrew intoherself.  She was not used to this type, and felt that there wassomething hard and low about it all.  She feared that the youngboys about would address such remarks to her--boys who, besideDrouet, seemed uncouth and ridiculous.  She made the averagefeminine distinction between clothes, putting worth, goodness,and distinction in a dress suit, and leaving all the unlovelyqualities and those beneath notice in overalls and jumper.

She was glad when the short half hour was over and the wheelsbegan to whirr again.  Though wearied, she would beinconspicuous.  This illusion ended when another young man passedalong the aisle and poked her indifferently in the ribs with histhumb.  She turned about, indignation leaping to her eyes, but hehad gone on and only once turned to grin.  She found it difficultto conquer an inclination to cry.

The girl next her noticed her state of mind.  "Don't you mind,"she said.  "He's too fresh."

Carrie said nothing, but bent over her work.  She felt as thoughshe could hardly endure such a life.  Her idea of work had beenso entirely different.  All during the long afternoon she thoughtof the city outside and its imposing show, crowds, and finebuildings.  Columbia City and the better side of her home lifecame back.  By three o'clock she was sure it must be six, and byfour it seemed as if they had forgotten to note the hour and wereletting all work overtime.  The foreman became a true ogre,prowling constantly about, keeping her tied down to her miserabletask.  What she heard of the conversation about her only made herfeel sure that she did not want to make friends with any ofthese.  When six o'clock came she hurried eagerly away, her armsaching and her limbs stiff from sitting in one position.

As she passed out along the hall after getting her hat, a youngmachine hand, attracted by her looks, made bold to jest with her.

"Say, Maggie," he called, "if you wait, I'll walk with you."

It was thrown so straight in her direction that she knew who wasmeant, but never turned to look.

In the crowded elevator, another dusty, toil-stained youth triedto make an impression on her by leering in her face.

One young man, waiting on the walk outside for the appearance ofanother, grinned at her as she passed.

"Ain't going my way, are you?" he called jocosely.

Carrie turned her face to the west with a subdued heart.  As sheturned the corner, she saw through the great shiny window thesmall desk at which she had applied.  There were the crowds,hurrying with the same buzz and energy-yielding enthusiasm.  Shefelt a slight relief, but it was only at her escape.  She feltashamed in the face of better dressed girls who went by.  Shefelt as though she should be better served, and her heartrevolted.

Chapter V

A GLITTERING NIGHT FLOWER--THE USE OF A NAME

Drouet did not call that evening.  After receiving the letter, hehad laid aside all thought of Carrie for the time being and wasfloating around having what he considered a gay time.  On thisparticular evening he dined at "Rector's," a restaurant of somelocal fame, which occupied a basement at Clark and MonroeStreets. There--after he visited the resort of Fitzgerald andMoy's in Adams Street, opposite the imposing Federal Building.There he leaned over the splendid bar and swallowed a glass ofplain whiskey and purchased a couple of cigars, one of which helighted.  This to him represented in part high life--a fairsample of what the whole must be.  Drouet was not a drinker inexcess. He was not a moneyed man.  He only craved the best, ashis mind conceived it, and such doings seemed to him a part ofthe best.  Rector's, with its polished marble walls and floor,its profusion of lights, its show of china and silverware, and,above all, its reputation as a resort for actors and professionalmen, seemed to him the proper place for a successful man to go.He loved fine clothes, good eating, and particularly the companyand acquaintanceship of successful men.  When dining, it was asource of keen satisfaction to him to know that Joseph Jeffersonwas wont to come to this same place, or that Henry E. Dixie, awell-known performer of the day, was then only a few tables off.At Rector's he could always obtain this satisfaction, for thereone could encounter politicians, brokers, actors, some rich young"rounders" of the town, all eating and drinking amid a buzz ofpopular commonplace conversation.

"That's So-and-so over there," was a common remark of thesegentlemen among themselves, particularly among those who had notyet reached, but hoped to do so, the dazzling height which moneyto dine here lavishly represented.

"You don't say so," would be the reply.

"Why, yes, didn't you know that?  Why, he's manager of the GrandOpera House."

When these things would fall upon Drouet's ears, he wouldstraighten himself a little more stiffly and eat with solidcomfort.  If he had any vanity, this augmented it, and if he hadany ambition, this stirred it.  He would be able to flash a rollof greenbacks too some day.  As it was, he could eat where THEYdid.

His preference for Fitzgerald and Moy's Adams Street place wasanother yard off the same cloth.  This was really a gorgeoussaloon from a Chicago standpoint. Like Rector's, it was alsoornamented with a blaze of incandescent lights, held in handsomechandeliers.  The floors were of brightly coloured tiles, thewalls a composition of rich, dark, polished wood, which reflectedthe light, and coloured stucco-work, which gave the place a verysumptuous appearance.  The long bar was a blaze of lights,polished woodwork, coloured and cut glassware, and many fancybottles.  It was a truly swell saloon, with rich screens, fancywines, and a line of bar goods unsurpassed in the country.

At Rector's, Drouet had met Mr. G. W. Hurstwood, manager ofFitzgerald and Moy's.  He had been pointed out as a verysuccessful and well-known man about town. Hurstwood looked thepart, for, besides being slightly under forty, he had a good,stout constitution, an active manner, and a solid, substantialair, which was composed in part of his fine clothes, his cleanlinen, his jewels, and, above all, his own sense of hisimportance.  Drouet immediately conceived a notion of him asbeing some one worth knowing, and was glad not only to meet him,but to visit the Adams Street bar thereafter whenever he wanted adrink or a cigar.

Hurstwood was an interesting character after his kind. He wasshrewd and clever in many little things, and capable of creatinga good impression.  His managerial position was fairly important--a kind of stewardship which was imposing, but lacked financialcontrol.  He had risen by perseverance and industry, through longyears of service, from the position of barkeeper in a commonplacesaloon to his present altitude.  He had a little office in theplace, set off in polished cherry and grill-work, where he kept,in a roll-top desk, the rather simple accounts of the place--supplies ordered and needed.  The chief executive and financialfunctions devolved upon the owners--Messrs. Fitzgerald and Moy--and upon a cashier who looked after the money taken in.

For the most part he lounged about, dressed in excellent tailoredsuits of imported goods, a solitaire ring, a fine blue diamond inhis tie, a striking vest of some new pattern, and a watch-chainof solid gold, which held a charm of rich design, and a watch ofthe latest make and engraving.  He knew by name, and could greetpersonally with a "Well, old fellow," hundreds of actors,merchants, politicians, and the general run of successfulcharacters about town, and it was part of his success to do so.He had a finely graduated scale of informality and friendship,which improved from the "How do you do?" addressed to thefifteen-dollar-a-week clerks and office attaches, who, by longfrequenting of the place, became aware of his position, to the"Why, old man, how are you?" which he addressed to those noted orrich individuals who knew him and were inclined to be friendly.There was a class, however, too rich, too famous, or toosuccessful, with whom he could not attempt any familiarity ofaddress, and with these he was professionally tactful, assuming agrave and dignified attitude, paying them the deference whichwould win their good feeling without in the least compromisinghis own bearing and opinions.  There were, in the last place, afew good followers, neither rich nor poor, famous, nor yetremarkably successful, with whom he was friendly on the score ofgood-fellowship. These were the kind of men with whom he wouldconverse longest and most seriously.  He loved to go out and havea good time once in a while--to go to the races, the theatres,the sporting entertainments at some of the clubs.  He kept ahorse and neat trap, had his wife and two children, who were wellestablished in a neat house on the North Side near Lincoln Park,and was altogether a very acceptable individual of our greatAmerican upper class--the first grade below the luxuriously rich.

Hurstwood liked Drouet.  The latter's genial nature and dressyappearance pleased him.  He knew that Drouet was only atravelling salesman--and not one of many years at that--but thefirm of Bartlett, Caryoe & Company was a large and prosperoushouse, and Drouet stood well. Hurstwood knew Caryoe quite well,having drunk a glass now and then with him, in company withseveral others, when the conversation was general.  Drouet hadwhat was a help in his business, a moderate sense of humour, andcould tell a good story when the occasion required.  He couldtalk races with Hurstwood, tell interesting incidents concerninghimself and his experiences with women, and report the state oftrade in the cities which he visited, and so managed to makehimself almost invariably agreeable.  To-night he wasparticularly so, since his report to the company had beenfavourably commented upon, his new samples had beensatisfactorily selected, and his trip marked out for the next sixweeks.

"Why, hello, Charlie, old man," said Hurstwood, as Drouet came inthat evening about eight o'clock.  "How goes it?"  The room wascrowded.

Drouet shook hands, beaming good nature, and they strolledtowards the bar.

"Oh, all right."

"I haven't seen you in six weeks.  When did you get in?"

"Friday," said Drouet.  "Had a fine trip."

"Glad of it," said Hurstwood, his black eyes lit with a warmthwhich half displaced the cold make-believe that usually dwelt inthem.  "What are you going to take?" he added, as the barkeeper,in snowy jacket and tie, leaned toward them from behind the bar.

"Old Pepper," said Drouet.

"A little of the same for me," put in Hurstwood.

"How long are you in town this time?" inquired Hurstwood.

"Only until Wednesday.  I'm going up to St. Paul."

"George Evans was in here Saturday and said he saw you inMilwaukee last week."

"Yes, I saw George," returned Drouet.  "Great old boy, isn't he?We had quite a time there together."

The barkeeper was setting out the glasses and bottle before them,and they now poured out the draught as they talked, Drouetfilling his to within a third of full, as was considered proper,and Hurstwood taking the barest suggestion of whiskey andmodifying it with seltzer.

"What's become of Caryoe?" remarked Hurstwood.  "I haven't seenhim around here in two weeks."

"Laid up, they say," exclaimed Drouet.  "Say, he's a gouty oldboy!"

"Made a lot of money in his time, though, hasn't he?"

"Yes, wads of it," returned Drouet.  "He won't live much longer.Barely comes down to the office now."

"Just one boy, hasn't he?" asked Hurstwood.

"Yes, and a swift-pacer," laughed Drouet.

"I guess he can't hurt the business very much, though, with theother members all there."

"No, he can't injure that any, I guess."

Hurstwood was standing, his coat open, his thumbs in his pockets,the light on his jewels and rings relieving them with agreeabledistinctness.  He was the picture of fastidious comfort.

To one not inclined to drink, and gifted with a more serious turnof mind, such a bubbling, chattering, glittering chamber mustever seem an anomaly, a strange commentary on nature and life.Here come the moths, in endless procession, to bask in the lightof the flame. Such conversation as one may hear would not warranta commendation of the scene upon intellectual grounds. It seemsplain that schemers would choose more sequestered quarters toarrange their plans, that politicians would not gather here incompany to discuss anything save formalities, where the sharp-eared may hear, and it would scarcely be justified on the scoreof thirst, for the majority of those who frequent these moregorgeous places have no craving for liquor. Nevertheless, thefact that here men gather, here chatter, here love to pass andrub elbows, must be explained upon some grounds.  It must be thata strange bundle of passions and vague desires give rise to sucha curious social institution or it would not be.

Drouet, for one, was lured as much by his longing for pleasure asby his desire to shine among his betters. The many friends he methere dropped in because they craved, without, perhaps,consciously analysing it, the company, the glow, the atmospherewhich they found. One might take it, after all, as an augur ofthe better social order, for the things which they satisfiedhere, though sensory, were not evil.  No evil could come out ofthe contemplation of an expensively decorated chamber.  The worsteffect of such a thing would be, perhaps, to stir up in thematerial-minded an ambition to arrange their lives upon asimilarly splendid basis. In the last analysis, that wouldscarcely be called the fault of the decorations, but rather ofthe innate trend of the mind.  That such a scene might stir theless expensively dressed to emulate the more expensively dressedcould scarcely be laid at the door of anything save the falseambition of the minds of those so affected.  Remove the elementso thoroughly and solely complained of--liquor--and there wouldnot be one to gainsay the qualities of beauty and enthusiasmwhich would remain.  The pleased eye with which our modernrestaurants of fashion are looked upon is proof of thisassertion.

Yet, here is the fact of the lighted chamber, the dressy, greedycompany, the small, self-interested palaver, the disorganized,aimless, wandering mental action which it represents--the love oflight and show and finery which, to one outside, under the serenelight of the eternal stars, must seem a strange and shiny thing.Under the stars and sweeping night winds, what a lamp-flower itmust bloom; a strange, glittering night-flower, odour-yielding,insect-drawing, insect-infested rose of pleasure.

"See that fellow coming in there?" said Hurstwood, glancing at agentleman just entering, arrayed in a high hat and Prince Albertcoat, his fat cheeks puffed and red as with good eating.

"No, where?" said Drouet.

"There," said Hurstwood, indicating the direction by a cast ofhis eye, "the man with the silk hat."

"Oh, yes," said Drouet, now affecting not to see.  "Who is he?"

"That's Jules Wallace, the spiritualist."

Drouet followed him with his eyes, much interested.

"Doesn't look much like a man who sees spirits, does he?" saidDrouet.

"Oh, I don't know," returned Hurstwood.  "He's got the money, allright," and a little twinkle passed over his eyes.

"I don't go much on those things, do you?" asked Drouet.

"Well, you never can tell," said Hurstwood.  "There may besomething to it.  I wouldn't bother about it myself, though.  Bythe way," he added, "are you going anywhere to-night?"

"'The Hole in the Ground,'" said Drouet, mentioning the popularfarce of the time.

"Well, you'd better be going.  It's half after eight already,"and he drew out his watch.

The crowd was already thinning out considerably--some bound forthe theatres, some to their clubs, and some to that mostfascinating of all the pleasures--for the type of man thererepresented, at least--the ladies.

"Yes, I will," said Drouet.

"Come around after the show.  I have something I want to showyou," said Hurstwood.

"Sure," said Drouet, elated.

"You haven't anything on hand for the night, have you?" addedHurstwood.

"Not a thing."

"Well, come round, then."

"I struck a little peach coming in on the train Friday," remarkedDrouet, by way of parting.  "By George, that's so, I must go andcall on her before I go away."

"Oh, never mind her," Hurstwood remarked.

"Say, she was a little dandy, I tell you," went on Drouetconfidentially, and trying to impress his friend.

"Twelve o'clock," said Hurstwood.

"That's right," said Drouet, going out.

Thus was Carrie's name bandied about in the most frivolous andgay of places, and that also when the little toiler was bemoaningher narrow lot, which was almost inseparable from the earlystages of this, her unfolding fate.

Chapter VI

THE MACHINE AND THE MAIDEN--A KNIGHT OF TO-DAY

At the flat that evening Carrie felt a new phase of itsatmosphere.  The fact that it was unchanged, while her feelingswere different, increased her knowledge of its character.Minnie, after the good spirits Carrie manifested at first,expected a fair report.  Hanson supposed that Carrie would besatisfied.

"Well," he said, as he came in from the hall in his workingclothes, and looked at Carrie through the dining-room door, "howdid you make out?"

"Oh," said Carrie, "it's pretty hard.  I don't like it."

There was an air about her which showed plainer than any wordsthat she was both weary and disappointed.

"What sort of work is it?" he asked, lingering a moment as heturned upon his heel to go into the bathroom.

"Running a machine," answered Carrie.

It was very evident that it did not concern him much, save fromthe side of the flat's success.  He was irritated a shade becauseit could not have come about in the throw of fortune for Carrieto be pleased.

Minnie worked with less elation than she had just before Carriearrived.  The sizzle of the meat frying did not sound quite sopleasing now that Carrie had reported her discontent.  To Carrie,the one relief of the whole day would have been a jolly home, asympathetic reception, a bright supper table, and some one tosay: "Oh, well, stand it a little while.  You will get somethingbetter," but now this was ashes. She began to see that theylooked upon her complaint as unwarranted, and that she wassupposed to work on and say nothing.  She knew that she was topay four dollars for her board and room, and now she felt that itwould be an exceedingly gloomy round, living with these people.

Minnie was no companion for her sister--she was too old.  Herthoughts were staid and solemnly adapted to a condition.  IfHanson had any pleasant thoughts or happy feelings he concealedthem.  He seemed to do all his mental operations without the aidof physical expression.  He was as still as a deserted chamber.Carrie, on the other hand, had the blood of youth and someimagination.  Her day of love and the mysteries of courtship werestill ahead.  She could think of things she would like to do, ofclothes she would like to wear, and of places she would like tovisit.  These were the things upon which her mind ran, and it waslike meeting with opposition at every turn to find no one here tocall forth or respond to her feelings.

She had forgotten, in considering and explaining the result ofher day, that Drouet might come.  Now, when she saw howunreceptive these two people were, she hoped he would not.  Shedid not know exactly what she would do or how she would explainto Drouet, if he came. After supper she changed her clothes.When she was trimly dressed she was rather a sweet little being,with large eyes and a sad mouth. Her face expressed the mingledexpectancy, dissatisfaction, and depression she felt.  Shewandered about after the dishes were put away, talked a littlewith Minnie, and then decided to go down and stand in the door atthe foot of the stairs. If Drouet came, she could meet him there.Her face took on the semblance of a look of happiness as she puton her hat to go below.

"Carrie doesn't seem to like her place very well," said Minnie toher husband when the latter came out, paper in hand, to sit inthe dining-room a few minutes.

"She ought to keep it for a time, anyhow," said Hanson. "Has shegone downstairs?"

"Yes," said Minnie.

"I'd tell her to keep it if I were you.  She might be here weekswithout getting another one."

Minnie said she would, and Hanson read his paper.

"If I were you," he said a little later, "I wouldn't let herstand in the door down there.  It don't look good."

"I'll tell her," said Minnie.

The life of the streets continued for a long time to interestCarrie.  She never wearied of wondering where the people in thecars were going or what their enjoyments were.  Her imaginationtrod a very narrow round, always winding up at points whichconcerned money, looks, clothes, or enjoyment.  She would have afar-off thought of Columbia City now and then, or an irritatingrush of feeling concerning her experiences of the present day,but, on the whole, the little world about her enlisted her wholeattention.

The first floor of the building, of which Hanson's flat was thethird, was occupied by a bakery, and to this, while she wasstanding there, Hanson came down to buy a loaf of bread.  She wasnot aware of his presence until he was quite near her.

"I'm after bread," was all he said as he passed.

The contagion of thought here demonstrated itself. While Hansonreally came for bread, the thought dwelt with him that now hewould see what Carrie was doing. No sooner did he draw near herwith that in mind than she felt it.  Of course, she had nounderstanding of what put it into her head, but, nevertheless, itaroused in her the first shade of real antipathy to him.  Sheknew now that she did not like him.  He was suspicious.

A thought will colour a world for us.  The flow of Carrie'smeditations had been disturbed, and Hanson had not long goneupstairs before she followed.  She had realised with the lapse ofthe quarter hours that Drouet was not coming, and somehow shefelt a little resentful, a little as if she had been forsaken--was not good enough.  She went upstairs, where everything wassilent.  Minnie was sewing by a lamp at the table. Hanson hadalready turned in for the night.  In her weariness anddisappointment Carrie did no more than announce that she wasgoing to bed.

"Yes, you'd better," returned Minnie.  "You've got to get upearly, you know."

The morning was no better.  Hanson was just going out the door asCarrie came from her room.  Minnie tried to talk with her duringbreakfast, but there was not much of interest which they couldmutually discuss.  As on the previous morning, Carrie walked downtown, for she began to realise now that her four-fifty would noteven allow her car fare after she paid her board.  This seemed amiserable arrangement.  But the morning light swept away thefirst misgivings of the day, as morning light is ever wont to do.

At the shoe factory she put in a long day, scarcely so wearisomeas the preceding, but considerably less novel.  The head foreman,on his round, stopped by her machine.

"Where did you come from?" he inquired.

"Mr. Brown hired me," she replied.

"Oh, he did, eh!" and then, "See that you keep things going."

The machine girls impressed her even less favourably. They seemedsatisfied with their lot, and were in a sense "common." Carriehad more imagination than they. She was not used to slang.  Herinstinct in the matter of dress was naturally better.  Shedisliked to listen to the girl next to her, who was ratherhardened by experience.

"I'm going to quit this," she heard her remark to her neighbour."What with the stipend and being up late, it's too much for mehealth."

They were free with the fellows, young and old, about the place,and exchanged banter in rude phrases, which at first shocked her.She saw that she was taken to be of the same sort and addressedaccordingly.

"Hello," remarked one of the stout-wristed sole-workers to her atnoon.  "You're a daisy." He really expected to hear the common"Aw! go chase yourself!" in return, and was sufficiently abashed,by Carrie's silently moving away, to retreat, awkwardly grinning.

That night at the flat she was even more lonely--the dullsituation was becoming harder to endure.  She could see that theHansons seldom or never had any company.  Standing at the streetdoor looking out, she ventured to walk out a little way.  Hereasy gait and idle manner attracted attention of an offensive butcommon sort.  She was slightly taken back at the overtures of awell-dressed man of thirty, who in passing looked at her, reducedhis pace, turned back, and said:

"Out for a little stroll, are you, this evening?"

Carrie looked at him in amazement, and then summoned sufficientthought to reply: "Why, I don't know you," backing away as shedid so.

"Oh, that don't matter," said the other affably.

She bandied no more words with him, but hurried away, reachingher own door quite out of breath.  There was something in theman's look which frightened her.

During the remainder of the week it was very much the same.  Oneor two nights she found herself too tired to walk home, andexpended car fare.  She was not very strong, and sitting all dayaffected her back.  She went to bed one night before Hanson.

Transplantation is not always successful in the matter of flowersor maidens.  It requires sometimes a richer soil, a betteratmosphere to continue even a natural growth.  It would have beenbetter if her acclimatization had been more gradual--less rigid.She would have done better if she had not secured a position soquickly, and had seen more of the city which she constantlytroubled to know about.

On the first morning it rained she found that she had noumbrella.  Minnie loaned her one of hers, which was worn andfaded.  There was the kind of vanity in Carrie that troubled atthis.  She went to one of the great department stores and boughtherself one, using a dollar and a quarter of her small store topay for it.

"What did you do that for, Carrie?" asked Minnie when she saw it.

"Oh, I need one," said Carrie.

"You foolish girl."

Carrie resented this, though she did not reply.  She was notgoing to be a common shop-girl, she thought; they need not thinkit, either.

On the first Saturday night Carrie paid her board, four dollars.Minnie had a quaver of conscience as she took it, but did notknow how to explain to Hanson if she took less.  That worthy gaveup just four dollars less toward the household expenses with asmile of satisfaction.  He contemplated increasing his Buildingand Loan payments.  As for Carrie, she studied over the problemof finding clothes and amusement on fifty cents a week.  Shebrooded over this until she was in a state of mental rebellion.

"I'm going up the street for a walk," she said after supper.

"Not alone, are you?" asked Hanson.

"Yes," returned Carrie.

"I wouldn't," said Minnie.

"I want to see SOMETHING," said Carrie, and by the tone she putinto the last word they realised for the first time she was notpleased with them.

"What's the matter with her?" asked Hanson, when she went intothe front room to get her hat.

"I don't know," said Minnie.

"Well, she ought to know better than to want to go out alone."

Carrie did not go very far, after all.  She returned and stood inthe door.  The next day they went out to Garfield Park, but itdid not please her.  She did not look well enough.  In the shopnext day she heard the highly coloured reports which girls giveof their trivial amusements.  They had been happy.  On severaldays it rained and she used up car fare.  One night she gotthoroughly soaked, going to catch the car at Van Buren Street.All that evening she sat alone in the front room looking out uponthe street, where the lights were reflected on the wet pavements,thinking. She had imagination enough to be moody.

On Saturday she paid another four dollars and pocketed her fiftycents in despair.  The speaking acquaintanceship which she formedwith some of the girls at the shop discovered to her the factthat they had more of their earnings to use for themselves thanshe did.  They had young men of the kind whom she, since herexperience with Drouet, felt above, who took them about.  Shecame to thoroughly dislike the light-headed young fellows of theshop.  Not one of them had a show of refinement.  She saw onlytheir workday side.

There came a day when the first premonitory blast of winter sweptover the city.  It scudded the fleecy clouds in the heavens,trailed long, thin streamers of smoke from the tall stacks, andraced about the streets and corners in sharp and sudden puffs.Carrie now felt the problem of winter clothes.  What was she todo? She had no winter jacket, no hat, no shoes.  It was difficultto speak to Minnie about this, but at last she summoned thecourage.

"I don't know what I'm going to do about clothes," she said oneevening when they were together.  "I need a hat."

Minnie looked serious.

"Why don't you keep part of your money and buy yourself one?" shesuggested, worried over the situation which the withholding ofCarrie's money would create.

"I'd like to for a week or so, if you don't mind," venturedCarrie.

"Could you pay two dollars?" asked Minnie.

Carrie readily acquiesced, glad to escape the trying situation,and liberal now that she saw a way out.  She was elated and beganfiguring at once.  She needed a hat first of all.  How Minnieexplained to Hanson she never knew.  He said nothing at all, butthere were thoughts in the air which left disagreeableimpressions.

The new arrangement might have worked if sickness had notintervened.  It blew up cold after a rain one afternoon whenCarrie was still without a jacket.  She came out of the warm shopat six and shivered as the wind struck her.  In the morning shewas sneezing, and going down town made it worse.  That day herbones ached and she felt light-headed.  Towards evening she feltvery ill, and when she reached home was not hungry.  Minnienoticed her drooping actions and asked her about herself.

"I don't know," said Carrie.  "I feel real bad."

She hung about the stove, suffered a chattering chill, and wentto bed sick.  The next morning she was thoroughly feverish.

Minnie was truly distressed at this, but maintained a kindlydemeanour.  Hanson said perhaps she had better go back home for awhile.  When she got up after three days, it was taken forgranted that her position was lost.  The winter was near at hand,she had no clothes, and now she was out of work.

"I don't know," said Carrie; "I'll go down Monday and see if Ican't get something."

If anything, her efforts were more poorly rewarded on this trialthan the last.  Her clothes were nothing suitable for fallwearing.  Her last money she had spent for a hat.  For three daysshe wandered about, utterly dispirited.  The attitude of the flatwas fast becoming unbearable.  She hated to think of going backthere each evening.  Hanson was so cold.  She knew it could notlast much longer.  Shortly she would have to give up and go home.

On the fourth day she was down town all day, having borrowed tencents for lunch from Minnie.  She had applied in the cheapestkind of places without success. She even answered for a waitressin a small restaurant where she saw a card in the window, butthey wanted an experienced girl.  She moved through the thickthrong of strangers, utterly subdued in spirit.  Suddenly a handpulled her arm and turned her about.

"Well, well!" said a voice.  In the first glance she beheldDrouet.  He was not only rosy-cheeked, but radiant.  He was theessence of sunshine and good-humour.  "Why, how are you, Carrie?"he said.  "You're a daisy.  Where have you been?"

Carrie smiled under his irresistible flood of geniality.

"I've been out home," she said.

"Well," he said, "I saw you across the street there. I thought itwas you.  I was just coming out to your place.  How are you,anyhow?"

"I'm all right," said Carrie, smiling.

Drouet looked her over and saw something different.

"Well," he said, "I want to talk to you.  You're not goinganywhere in particular, are you?"

"Not just now," said Carrie.

"Let's go up here and have something to eat.  George! but I'mglad to see you again."

She felt so relieved in his radiant presence, so much lookedafter and cared for, that she assented gladly, though with theslightest air of holding back.

"Well," he said, as he took her arm--and there was an exuberanceof good-fellowship in the word which fairly warmed the cockles ofher heart.

They went through Monroe Street to the old Windsor dining-room,which was then a large, comfortable place, with an excellentcuisine and substantial service. Drouet selected a table close bythe window, where the busy rout of the street could be seen.  Heloved the changing panorama of the street--to see and be seen ashe dined.

"Now," he said, getting Carrie and himself comfortably settled,"what will you have?"

Carrie looked over the large bill of fare which the waiter handedher without really considering it.  She was very hungry, and thethings she saw there awakened her desires, but the high pricesheld her attention. "Half broiled spring chicken--seventy-five.Sirloin steak with mushrooms--one twenty-five." She had dimlyheard of these things, but it seemed strange to be called toorder from the list.

"I'll fix this," exclaimed Drouet.  "Sst! waiter."

That officer of the board, a full-chested, round-faced negro,approached, and inclined his ear.

"Sirloin with mushrooms," said Drouet.  "Stuffed tomatoes."

"Yassah," assented the negro, nodding his head.

"Hashed brown potatoes."

"Yassah."

"Asparagus."

"Yassah."

"And a pot of coffee."

Drouet turned to Carrie.  "I haven't had a thing since breakfast.Just got in from Rock Island.  I was going off to dine when I sawyou."

Carrie smiled and smiled.

"What have you been doing?" he went on.  "Tell me all aboutyourself.  How is your sister?"

"She's well," returned Carrie, answering the last query.

He looked at her hard.

"Say," he said, "you haven't been sick, have you?"

Carrie nodded.

"Well, now, that's a blooming shame, isn't it?  You don't lookvery well.  I thought you looked a little pale.  What have youbeen doing?"

"Working," said Carrie.

"You don't say so!  At what?"

She told him.

"Rhodes, Morgenthau and Scott--why, I know that house. over hereon Fifth Avenue, isn't it?  They're a close-fisted concern.  Whatmade you go there?"

"I couldn't get anything else," said Carrie frankly.

"Well, that's an outrage," said Drouet.  "You oughtn't to beworking for those people.  Have the factory right back of thestore, don't they?"

"Yes," said Carrie.

"That isn't a good house," said Drouet.  "You don't want to workat anything like that, anyhow."

He chatted on at a great rate, asking questions, explainingthings about himself, telling her what a good restaurant it was,until the waiter returned with an immense tray, bearing the hotsavoury dishes which had been ordered.  Drouet fairly shone inthe matter of serving.  He appeared to great advantage behind thewhite napery and silver platters of the table and displaying hisarms with a knife and fork.  As he cut the meat his rings almostspoke.  His new suit creaked as he stretched to reach the plates,break the bread, and pour the coffee.  He helped Carrie to arousing plateful and contributed the warmth of his spirit to herbody until she was a new girl.  He was a splendid fellow in thetrue popular understanding of the term, and captivated Carriecompletely.

That little soldier of fortune took her good turn in an easy way.She felt a little out of place, but the great room soothed herand the view of the well-dressed throng outside seemed a splendidthing.  Ah, what was it not to have money!  What a thing it wasto be able to come in here and dine!  Drouet must be fortunate.He rode on trains, dressed in such nice clothes, was so strong,and ate in these fine places.  He seemed quite a figure of a man,and she wondered at his friendship and regard for her.

"So you lost your place because you got sick, eh?" he said."What are you going to do now?"

"Look around," she said, a thought of the need that hung outsidethis fine restaurant like a hungry dog at her heels passing intoher eyes.

"Oh, no," said Drouet, "that won't do.  How long have you beenlooking?"

"Four days," she answered.

"Think of that!" he said, addressing some problematicalindividual.  "You oughtn't to be doing anything like that.  Thesegirls," and he waved an inclusion of all shop and factory girls,"don't get anything.  Why, you can't live on it, can you?"

He was a brotherly sort of creature in his demeanour. When he hadscouted the idea of that kind of toil, he took another tack.Carrie was really very pretty. Even then, in her commonplacegarb, her figure was evidently not bad, and her eyes were largeand gentle. Drouet looked at her and his thoughts reached home.She felt his admiration.  It was powerfully backed by hisliberality and good-humour.  She felt that she liked him--thatshe could continue to like him ever so much.  There was somethingeven richer than that, running as a hidden strain, in her mind.Every little while her eyes would meet his, and by that means theinterchanging current of feeling would be fully connected.

"Why don't you stay down town and go to the theatre with me?" hesaid, hitching his chair closer.  The table was not very wide.

"Oh, I can't," she said.

"What are you going to do to-night?"

"Nothing," she answered, a little drearily.

"You don't like out there where you are, do you?"

"Oh, I don't know."

"What are you going to do if you don't get work?"

"Go back home, I guess."

There was the least quaver in her voice as she said this.Somehow, the influence he was exerting was powerful.  They cameto an understanding of each other without words--he of hersituation, she of the fact that he realised it."No," he said, "you can't make it!" genuine sympathy filling hismind for the time.  "Let me help you.  You take some of mymoney."

"Oh, no!" she said, leaning back.

"What are you going to do?" he said.

She sat meditating, merely shaking her head.

He looked at her quite tenderly for his kind.  There were someloose bills in his vest pocket--greenbacks. They were soft andnoiseless, and he got his fingers about them and crumpled them upin his hand.

"Come on," he said, "I'll see you through all right. Get yourselfsome clothes."

It was the first reference he had made to that subject, and nowshe realised how bad off she was.  In his crude way he had struckthe key-note.  Her lips trembled a little.

She had her hand out on the table before her.  They were quitealone in their corner, and he put his larger, warmer hand overit.

"Aw, come, Carrie," he said, "what can you do alone? Let me helpyou."

He pressed her hand gently and she tried to withdraw it.  At thishe held it fast, and she no longer protested.  Then he slippedthe greenbacks he had into her palm, and when she began toprotest, he whispered:

"I'll loan it to you--that's all right.  I'll loan it to you."

He made her take it.  She felt bound to him by a strange tie ofaffection now.  They went out, and he walked with her far outsouth toward Polk Street, talking.

"You don't want to live with those people?" he said in one place,abstractedly.  Carrie heard it, but it made only a slightimpression.

"Come down and meet me to morrow," he said, "and we'll go to thematinee.  Will you?"

Carrie protested a while, but acquiesced.

"You're not doing anything.  Get yourself a nice pair of shoesand a jacket."

She scarcely gave a thought to the complication which wouldtrouble her when he was gone.  In his presence, she was of hisown hopeful, easy-way-out mood.

"Don't you bother about those people out there," he said atparting.  "I'll help you."

Carrie left him, feeling as though a great arm had slipped outbefore her to draw off trouble.  The money she had accepted wastwo soft, green, handsome ten-dollar bills.

Chapter VII

THE LURE OF THE MATERIAL--BEAUTY SPEAKS FOR ITSELF

The true meaning of money yet remains to be popularly explainedand comprehended.  When each individual realises for himself thatthis thing primarily stands for and should only be accepted as amoral due--that it should be paid out as honestly stored energy,and not as a usurped privilege--many of our social, religious,and political troubles will have permanently passed. As forCarrie, her understanding of the moral significance of money wasthe popular understanding, nothing more.  The old definition:"Money: something everybody else has and I must get," would haveexpressed her understanding of it thoroughly.  Some of it she nowheld in her hand--two soft, green ten-dollar bills--and she feltthat she was immensely better off for the having of them.  It wassomething that was power in itself.  One of her order of mindwould have been content to be cast away upon a desert island witha bundle of money, and only the long strain of starvation wouldhave taught her that in some cases it could have no value.  Eventhen she would have had no conception of the relative value ofthe thing; her one thought would, undoubtedly, have concerned thepity of having so much power and the inability to use it.

The poor girl thrilled as she walked away from Drouet. She feltashamed in part because she had been weak enough to take it, buther need was so dire, she was still glad.  Now she would have anice new jacket!  Now she would buy a nice pair of pretty buttonshoes.  She would get stockings, too, and a skirt, and, and--until already, as in the matter of her prospective salary, shehad got beyond, in her desires, twice the purchasing power of herbills.

She conceived a true estimate of Drouet.  To her, and indeed toall the world, he was a nice, good-hearted man.  There wasnothing evil in the fellow.  He gave her the money out of a goodheart--out of a realisation of her want.  He would not have giventhe same amount to a poor young man, but we must not forget thata poor young man could not, in the nature of things, haveappealed to him like a poor young girl. Femininity affected hisfeelings.  He was the creature of an inborn desire.  Yet nobeggar could have caught his eye and said, "My God, mister, I'mstarving," but he would gladly have handed out what wasconsidered the proper portion to give beggars and thought no moreabout it.  There would have been no speculation, nophilosophising.  He had no mental process in him worthy thedignity of either of those terms.  In his good clothes and finehealth, he was a merry, unthinking moth of the lamp.  Deprived ofhis position, and struck by a few of the involved and bafflingforces which sometimes play upon man, he would have been ashelpless as Carrie--as helpless, as non-understanding, aspitiable, if you will, as she.

Now, in regard to his pursuit of women, he meant them no harm,because he did not conceive of the relation which he hoped tohold with them as being harmful.  He loved to make advances towomen, to have them succumb to his charms, not because he was acold-blooded, dark, scheming villain, but because his inborndesire urged him to that as a chief delight.  He was vain, he wasboastful, he was as deluded by fine clothes as any silly-headedgirl.  A truly deep-dyed villain could have hornswaggled him asreadily as he could have flattered a pretty shop-girl.  His finesuccess as a salesman lay in his geniality and the thoroughlyreputable standing of his house.  He bobbed about among men, averitable bundle of enthusiasm--no power worthy the name ofintellect, no thoughts worthy the adjective noble, no feelingslong continued in one strain.  A Madame Sappho would have calledhim a pig; a Shakespeare would have said "my merry child"; old,drinking Caryoe thought him a clever, successful businessman.  Inshort, he was as good as his intellect conceived.

The best proof that there was something open and commendableabout the man was the fact that Carrie took the money.  No deep,sinister soul with ulterior motives could have given her fifteencents under the guise of friendship.  The unintellectual are notso helpless.  Nature has taught the beasts of the field to flywhen some unheralded danger threatens.  She has put into thesmall, unwise head of the chipmunk the untutored fear of poisons."He keepeth His creatures whole," was not written of beastsalone.  Carrie was unwise, and, therefore, like the sheep in itsunwisdom, strong in feeling.  The instinct of self-protection,strong in all such natures, was roused but feebly, if at all, bythe overtures of Drouet.

When Carrie had gone, he felicitated himself upon her goodopinion.  By George, it was a shame young girls had to be knockedaround like that.  Cold weather coming on and no clothes.  Tough.He would go around to Fitzgerald and Moy's and get a cigar.  Itmade him feel light of foot as he thought about her.

Carrie reached home in high good spirits, which she couldscarcely conceal.  The possession of the money involved a numberof points which perplexed her seriously. How should she buy anyclothes when Minnie knew that she had no money?  She had nosooner entered the flat than this point was settled for her.  Itcould not be done.  She could think of no way of explaining.

"How did you come out?" asked Minnie, referring to the day.

Carrie had none of the small deception which could feel one thingand say something directly opposed.  She would prevaricate, butit would be in the line of her feelings at least.  So instead ofcomplaining when she felt so good, she said:

"I have the promise of something."

"Where?"

"At the Boston Store."

"Is it sure promised?" questioned Minnie.

"Well, I'm to find out to-morrow," returned Carrie disliking todraw out a lie any longer than was necessary.

Minnie felt the atmosphere of good feeling which Carrie broughtwith her.  She felt now was the time to express to Carrie thestate of Hanson's feeling about her entire Chicago venture.

"If you shouldn't get it--" she paused, troubled for an easy way.

"If I don't get something pretty soon, I think I'll go home."

Minnie saw her chance.

"Sven thinks it might be best for the winter, anyhow."

The situation flashed on Carrie at once.  They were unwilling tokeep her any longer, out of work.  She did not blame Minnie, shedid not blame Hanson very much. Now, as she sat there digestingthe remark, she was glad she had Drouet's money."Yes," she said after a few moments, "I thought of doing that."

She did not explain that the thought, however, had aroused allthe antagonism of her nature.  Columbia City, what was there forher?  She knew its dull, little round by heart.  Here was thegreat, mysterious city which was still a magnet for her.  Whatshe had seen only suggested its possibilities.  Now to turn backon it and live the little old life out there--she almostexclaimed against the thought.

She had reached home early and went in the front room to think.What could she do?  She could not buy new shoes and wear themhere.  She would need to save part of the twenty to pay her farehome.  She did not want to borrow of Minnie for that.  And yet,how could she explain where she even got that money?  If shecould only get enough to let her out easy.

She went over the tangle again and again.  Here, in the morning,Drouet would expect to see her in a new jacket, and that couldn'tbe.  The Hansons expected her to go home, and she wanted to getaway, and yet she did not want to go home.  In the light of theway they would look on her getting money without work, the takingof it now seemed dreadful.  She began to be ashamed.  The wholesituation depressed her.  It was all so clear when she was withDrouet.  Now it was all so tangled, so hopeless--much worse thanit was before, because she had the semblance of aid in her handwhich she could not use.

Her spirits sank so that at supper Minnie felt that she must havehad another hard day.  Carrie finally decided that she would givethe money back.  It was wrong to take it.  She would go down inthe morning and hunt for work.  At noon she would meet Drouet asagreed and tell him.  At this decision her heart sank, until shewas the old Carrie of distress.

Curiously, she could not hold the money in her hand withoutfeeling some relief.  Even after all her depressing conclusions,she could sweep away all thought about the matter and then thetwenty dollars seemed a wonderful and delightful thing.  Ah,money, money, money!  What a thing it was to have.  How plenty ofit would clear away all these troubles.

In the morning she got up and started out a little early.  Herdecision to hunt for work was moderately strong, but the money inher pocket, after all her troubling over it, made the workquestion the least shade less terrible.  She walked into thewholesale district, but as the thought of applying came with eachpassing concern, her heart shrank.  What a coward she was, shethought to herself.  Yet she had applied so often.  It would bethe same old story.  She walked on and on, and finally did gointo one place, with the old result.  She came out feeling thatluck was against her.  It was no use.

Without much thinking, she reached Dearborn Street. Here was thegreat Fair store with its multitude of delivery wagons about itslong window display, its crowd of shoppers.  It readily changedher thoughts, she who was so weary of them.  It was here that shehad intended to come and get her new things.  Now for relief fromdistress; she thought she would go in and see.  She would look atthe jackets.

There is nothing in this world more delightful than that middlestate in which we mentally balance at times, possessed of themeans, lured by desire, and yet deterred by conscience or want ofdecision.  When Carrie began wandering around the store amid thefine displays she was in this mood.  Her original experience inthis same place had given her a high opinion of its merits.  Nowshe paused at each individual bit of finery, where before she hadhurried on.  Her woman's heart was warm with desire for them.How would she look in this, how charming that would make her!She came upon the corset counter and paused in rich reverie asshe noted the dainty concoctions of colour and lace theredisplayed.  If she would only make up her mind, she could haveone of those now.  She lingered in the jewelry department.  Shesaw the earrings, the bracelets, the pins, the chains.  Whatwould she not have given if she could have had them all!  Shewould look fine too, if only she had some of these things.

The jackets were the greatest attraction.  When she entered thestore, she already had her heart fixed upon the peculiar littletan jacket with large mother-of-pearl buttons which was all therage that fall.  Still she delighted to convince herself thatthere was nothing she would like better.  She went about amongthe glass cases and racks where these things were displayed, andsatisfied herself that the one she thought of was the proper one.All the time she wavered in mind, now persuading herself that shecould buy it right away if she chose, now recalling to herselfthe actual condition.  At last the noon hour was dangerouslynear, and she had done nothing.  She must go now and return themoney.

Drouet was on the corner when she came up.

"Hello," he said, "where is the jacket and"--looking down--"theshoes?"

Carrie had thought to lead up to her decision in some intelligentway, but this swept the whole fore-schemed situation by theboard.

"I came to tell you that--that I can't take the money."

"Oh, that's it, is it?" he returned.  "Well, you come on with me.Let's go over here to Partridge's."

Carrie walked with him.  Behold, the whole fabric of doubt andimpossibility had slipped from her mind.  She could not get atthe points that were so serious, the things she was going to makeplain to him.

"Have you had lunch yet?  Of course you haven't.  Let's go inhere," and Drouet turned into one of the very nicely furnishedrestaurants off State Street, in Monroe.

"I mustn't take the money," said Carrie, after they were settledin a cosey corner, and Drouet had ordered the lunch.  "I can'twear those things out there. They--they wouldn't know where I gotthem."

"What do you want to do," he smiled, "go without them?"

"I think I'll go home," she said, wearily.

"Oh, come," he said, "you've been thinking it over too long.I'll tell you what you do.  You say you can't wear them outthere.  Why don't you rent a furnished room and leave them inthat for a week?"

Carrie shook her head.  Like all women, she was there to objectand be convinced.  It was for him to brush the doubts away andclear the path if he could."Why are you going home?" he asked.

"Oh, I can't get anything here."

They won't keep you?" he remarked, intuitively.

"They can't," said Carrie.

"I'll tell you what you do," he said.  "You come with me.  I'lltake care of you."

Carrie heard this passively.  The peculiar state which she was inmade it sound like the welcome breath of an open door.  Drouetseemed of her own spirit and pleasing.  He was clean, handsome,well-dressed, and sympathetic.  His voice was the voice of afriend.

"What can you do back at Columbia City?" he went on, rousing bythe words in Carrie's mind a picture of the dull world she hadleft.  "There isn't anything down there.  Chicago's the place.You can get a nice room here and some clothes, and then you cando something."

Carrie looked out through the window into the busy street.  Thereit was, the admirable, great city, so fine when you are not poor.An elegant coach, with a prancing pair of bays, passed by,carrying in its upholstered depths a young lady.

"What will you have if you go back?" asked Drouet. There was nosubtle undercurrent to the question.  He imagined that she wouldhave nothing at all of the things he thought worth while.

Carrie sat still, looking out.  She was wondering what she coulddo.  They would be expecting her to go home this week.

Drouet turned to the subject of the clothes she was going to buy.

"Why not get yourself a nice little jacket?  You've got to haveit.  I'll loan you the money.  You needn't worry about taking it.You can get yourself a nice room by yourself.  I won't hurt you."

Carrie saw the drift, but could not express her thoughts.  Shefelt more than ever the helplessness of her case.

"If I could only get something to do," she said.

"Maybe you can," went on Drouet, "if you stay here. You can't ifyou go away.  They won't let you stay out there.  Now, why notlet me get you a nice room?  I won't bother you--you needn't beafraid.  Then, when you get fixed up, maybe you could getsomething."

He looked at her pretty face and it vivified his mentalresources.  She was a sweet little mortal to him--there was nodoubt of that.  She seemed to have some power back of heractions.  She was not like the common run of store-girls.  Shewasn't silly.

In reality, Carrie had more imagination than he--more taste.  Itwas a finer mental strain in her that made possible herdepression and loneliness.  Her poor clothes were neat, and sheheld her head unconsciously in a dainty way.

"Do you think I could get something?" she asked.

"Sure," he said, reaching over and filling her cup with tea."I'll help you."

She looked at him, and he laughed reassuringly.

"Now I'll tell you what we'll do.  We'll go over here toPartridge's and you pick out what you want.  Then we'll lookaround for a room for you.  You can leave the things there.  Thenwe'll go to the show to-night."

Carrie shook her head.

"Well, you can go out to the flat then, that's all right.  Youdon't need to stay in the room.  Just take it and leave yourthings there."

She hung in doubt about this until the dinner was over.

"Let's go over and look at the jackets," he said.

Together they went.  In the store they found that shine andrustle of new things which immediately laid hold of Carrie'sheart.  Under the influence of a good dinner and Drouet'sradiating presence, the scheme proposed seemed feasible.  Shelooked about and picked a jacket like the one which she hadadmired at The Fair.  When she got it in her hand it seemed somuch nicer.  The saleswoman helped her on with it, and, byaccident, it fitted perfectly.  Drouet's face lightened as he sawthe improvement.  She looked quite smart.

"That's the thing," he said.

Carrie turned before the glass.  She could not help feelingpleased as she looked at herself.  A warm glow crept into hercheeks.

"That's the thing," said Drouet.  "Now pay for it."

"It's nine dollars," said Carrie.

"That's all right--take it," said Drouet.

She reached in her purse and took out one of the bills. The womanasked if she would wear the coat and went off.  In a few minutesshe was back and the purchase was closed.

From Partridge's they went to a shoe store, where Carrie wasfitted for shoes.  Drouet stood by, and when he saw how nice theylooked, said, "Wear them." Carrie shook her head, however.  Shewas thinking of returning to the flat.  He bought her a purse forone thing, and a pair of gloves for another, and let her buy thestockings.

"To-morrow," he said, "you come down here and buy yourself askirt."

In all of Carrie's actions there was a touch of misgiving.  Thedeeper she sank into the entanglement, the more she imagined thatthe thing hung upon the few remaining things she had not done.Since she had not done these, there was a way out.

Drouet knew a place in Wabash Avenue where there were rooms.  Heshowed Carrie the outside of these, and said: "Now, you're mysister." He carried the arrangement off with an easy hand when itcame to the selection, looking around, criticising, opining."Her trunk will be here in a day or so," he observed to thelandlady, who was very pleased.

When they were alone, Drouet did not change in the least.  Hetalked in the same general way as if they were out in the street.Carrie left her things.

"Now," said Drouet, "why don't you move to-night?"

"Oh, I can't," said Carrie.

"Why not?"

"I don't want to leave them so."

He took that up as they walked along the avenue.  It was a warmafternoon.  The sun had come out and the wind had died down.  Ashe talked with Carrie, he secured an accurate detail of theatmosphere of the flat.

"Come out of it," he said, "they won't care.  I'll help you getalong."

She listened until her misgivings vanished.  He would show herabout a little and then help her get something.  He reallyimagined that he would.  He would be out on the road and shecould be working.

"Now, I'll tell you what you do," he said, "you go out there andget whatever you want and come away."

She thought a long time about this.  Finally she agreed.  Hewould come out as far as Peoria Street and wait for her.  She wasto meet him at half-past eight. At half-past five she reachedhome, and at six her determination was hardened.

"So you didn't get it?" said Minnie, referring to Carrie's storyof the Boston Store.

Carrie looked at her out of the corner of her eye. "No," sheanswered.

"I don't think you'd better try any more this fall," said Minnie.

Carrie said nothing.

When Hanson came home he wore the same inscrutable demeanour.  Hewashed in silence and went off to read his paper.  At dinnerCarrie felt a little nervous. The strain of her own plans wereconsiderable, and the feeling that she was not welcome here wasstrong.

"Didn't find anything, eh?" said Hanson.

"No."

He turned to his eating again, the thought that it was a burdento have her here dwelling in his mind.  She would have to gohome, that was all.  Once she was away, there would be no morecoming back in the spring.

Carrie was afraid of what she was going to do, but she wasrelieved to know that this condition was ending. They would notcare.  Hanson particularly would be glad when she went.  He wouldnot care what became of her.

After dinner she went into the bathroom, where they could notdisturb her, and wrote a little note.

"Good-bye, Minnie," it read.  "I'm not going home.  I'm going tostay in Chicago a little while and look for work.  Don't worry.I'll be all right."

In the front room Hanson was reading his paper.  As usual, shehelped Minnie clear away the dishes and straighten up.  Then shesaid:

"I guess I'll stand down at the door a little while." She couldscarcely prevent her voice from trembling.

Minnie remembered Hanson's remonstrance.

"Sven doesn't think it looks good to stand down there," she said.

"Doesn't he?" said Carrie.  "I won't do it any more after this."

She put on her hat and fidgeted around the table in the littlebedroom, wondering where to slip the note. Finally she put itunder Minnie's hair-brush.

When she had closed the hall-door, she paused a moment andwondered what they would think.  Some thought of the queerness ofher deed affected her.  She went slowly down the stairs.  Shelooked back up the lighted step, and then affected to stroll upthe street.  When she reached the corner she quickened her pace.

As she was hurrying away, Hanson came back to his wife.

"Is Carrie down at the door again?" he asked.

"Yes," said Minnie; "she said she wasn't going to do it anymore."

He went over to the baby where it was playing on the floor andbegan to poke his finger at it.

Drouet was on the corner waiting, in good spirits.

"Hello, Carrie," he said, as a sprightly figure of a girl drewnear him.  "Got here safe, did you?  Well, we'll take a car."

Chapter VIII

INTIMATIONS BY WINTER--AN AMBASSADOR SUMMONED

Among the forces which sweep and play throughout the universe,untutored man is but a wisp in the wind.  Our civilisation isstill in a middle stage, scarcely beast, in that it is no longerwholly guided by instinct; scarcely human, in that it is not yetwholly guided by reason.  On the tiger no responsibility rests.We see him aligned by nature with the forces of life--he is borninto their keeping and without thought he is protected.  We seeman far removed from the lairs of the jungles, his innateinstincts dulled by too near an approach to free-will, his free-will not sufficiently developed to replace his instincts andafford him perfect guidance.

He is becoming too wise to hearken always to instincts anddesires; he is still too weak to always prevail against them.  Asa beast, the forces of life aligned him with them; as a man, hehas not yet wholly learned to align himself with the forces.  Inthis intermediate stage he wavers--neither drawn in harmony withnature by his instincts nor yet wisely putting himself intoharmony by his own free-will.  He is even as a wisp in the wind,moved by every breath of passion, acting now by his will and nowby his instincts, erring with one, only to retrieve by the other,falling by one, only to rise by the other--a creature ofincalculable variability.  We have the consolation of knowingthat evolution is ever in action, that the ideal is a light thatcannot fail.  He will not forever balance thus between good andevil.  When this jangle of free-will instinct shall have beenadjusted, when perfect under standing has given the former thepower to replace the latter entirely, man will no longer vary.The needle of understanding will yet point steadfast andunwavering to the distinct pole of truth.

In Carrie--as in how many of our worldlings do they not?--instinct and reason, desire and understanding, were at war forthe mastery.  She followed whither her craving led.  She was asyet more drawn than she drew.

When Minnie found the note next morning, after a night of mingledwonder and anxiety, which was not exactly touched by yearning,sorrow, or love, she exclaimed: "Well, what do you think ofthat?"

"What?" said Hanson.

"Sister Carrie has gone to live somewhere else."

Hanson jumped out of bed with more celerity than he usuallydisplayed and looked at the note.  The only indication of histhoughts came in the form of a little clicking sound made by histongue; the sound some people make when they wish to urge on ahorse.

"Where do you suppose she's gone to?" said Minnie, thoroughlyaroused.

"I don't know," a touch of cynicism lighting his eye. "Now shehas gone and done it."

Minnie moved her head in a puzzled way.

"Oh, oh," she said, "she doesn't know what she has done."

"Well," said Hanson, after a while, sticking his hands out beforehim, "what can you do?"

Minnie's womanly nature was higher than this.  She figured thepossibilities in such cases.

"Oh," she said at last, "poor Sister Carrie!"

At the time of this particular conversation, which occurred at 5A.M., that little soldier of fortune was sleeping a rathertroubled sleep in her new room, alone.

Carrie's new state was remarkable in that she saw possibilitiesin it.  She was no sensualist, longing to drowse sleepily in thelap of luxury.  She turned about, troubled by her daring, glad ofher release, wondering whether she would get something to do,wondering what Drouet would do.  That worthy had his future fixedfor him beyond a peradventure.  He could not help what he wasgoing to do.  He could not see clearly enough to wish to dodifferently.  He was drawn by his innate desire to act the oldpursuing part.  He would need to delight himself with Carrie assurely as he would need to eat his heavy breakfast.  He mightsuffer the least rudimentary twinge of conscience in whatever hedid, and in just so far he was evil and sinning.  But whatevertwinges of conscience he might have would be rudimentary, you maybe sure.

The next day he called upon Carrie, and she saw him in herchamber.  He was the same jolly, enlivening soul.

"Aw," he said, "what are you looking so blue about? Come on outto breakfast.  You want to get your other clothes to-day."

Carrie looked at him with the hue of shifting thought in herlarge eyes.

"I wish I could get something to do," she said.

"You'll get that all right," said Drouet.  "What's the useworrying right now?  Get yourself fixed up.  See the city.  Iwon't hurt you."

"I know you won't," she remarked, half truthfully.

"Got on the new shoes, haven't you?  Stick 'em out. George, theylook fine.  Put on your jacket."

Carrie obeyed.

"Say, that fits like a T, don't it?" he remarked, feeling the setof it at the waist and eyeing it from a few paces with realpleasure.  "What you need now is a new skirt.  Let's go tobreakfast."

Carrie put on her hat.

"Where are the gloves?" he inquired.

"Here," she said, taking them out of the bureau drawer.

"Now, come on," he said.

Thus the first hour of misgiving was swept away.

It went this way on every occasion.  Drouet did not leave hermuch alone.  She had time for some lone wanderings, but mostly hefilled her hours with sight-seeing.  At Carson, Pirie's he boughther a nice skirt and shirt waist.  With his money she purchasedthe little necessaries of toilet, until at last she looked quiteanother maiden.  The mirror convinced her of a few things whichshe had long believed.  She was pretty, yes, indeed!  How niceher hat set, and weren't her eyes pretty.  She caught her littlered lip with her teeth and felt her first thrill of power.Drouet was so good.

They went to see "The Mikado" one evening, an opera which washilariously popular at that time.  Before going, they made offfor the Windsor dining-room, which was in Dearborn Street, aconsiderable distance from Carrie's room.  It was blowing upcold, and out of her window Carrie could see the western sky,still pink with the fading light, but steely blue at the topwhere it met the darkness.  A long, thin cloud of pink hung inmidair, shaped like some island in a far-off sea. Somehow theswaying of some dead branches of trees across the way broughtback the picture with which she was familiar when she looked fromtheir front window in December days at home.She paused and wrung her little hands.

"What's the matter?" said Drouet.

"Oh, I don't know," she said, her lip trembling.

He sensed something, and slipped his arm over her shoulder,patting her arm.

"Come on," he said gently, "you're all right."

She turned to slip on her jacket.

"Better wear that boa about your throat to night."

They walked north on Wabash to Adams Street and then west.  Thelights in the stores were already shining out in gushes of goldenhue.  The arc lights were sputtering overhead, and high up werethe lighted windows of the tall office buildings.  The chill windwhipped in and out in gusty breaths.  Homeward bound, the sixo'clock throng bumped and jostled. Light overcoats were turned upabout the ears, hats were pulled down.  Little shop-girls wentfluttering by in pairs and fours, chattering, laughing.  It was aspectacle of warm-blooded humanity.

Suddenly a pair of eyes met Carrie's in recognition. They werelooking out from a group of poorly dressed girls.  Their clotheswere faded and loose-hanging, their jackets old, their generalmake-up shabby.

Carrie recognised the glance and the girl.  She was one of thosewho worked at the machines in the shoe factory.  The latterlooked, not quite sure, and then turned her head and looked.Carrie felt as if some great tide had rolled between them.  Theold dress and the old machine came back.  She actually started.Drouet didn't notice until Carrie bumped into a pedestrian.

"You must be thinking," he said.

They dined and went to the theatre.  That spectacle pleasedCarrie immensely.  The colour and grace of it caught her eye.She had vain imaginings about place and power, about far-offlands and magnificent people. When it was over, the clatter ofcoaches and the throng of fine ladies made her stare.

"Wait a minute," said Drouet, holding her back in the showy foyerwhere ladies and gentlemen were moving in a social crush, skirtsrustling, lace-covered heads nodding, white teeth showing throughparted lips. "Let's see."

"Sixty-seven," the coach-caller was saying, his voice lifted in asort of euphonious cry.  "Sixty-seven."

"Isn't it fine?" said Carrie.

"Great," said Drouet.  He was as much affected by this show offinery and gayety as she.  He pressed her arm warmly.  Once shelooked up, her even teeth glistening through her smiling lips,her eyes alight.  As they were moving out he whispered down toher, "You look lovely!"  They were right where the coach-callerwas swinging open a coach-door and ushering in two ladies.

"You stick to me and we'll have a coach," laughed Drouet.

Carrie scarcely heard, her head was so full of the swirl of life.They stopped in at a restaurant for a little after-theatre lunch.Just a shade of a thought of the hour entered Carrie's head, butthere was no household law to govern her now.  If any habits everhad time to fix upon her, they would have operated here.  Habitsare peculiar things.  They will drive the really non-religiousmind out of bed to say prayers that are only a custom and not adevotion.  The victim of habit, when he has neglected the thingwhich it was his custom to do, feels a little scratching in thebrain, a little irritating something which comes of being out ofthe rut, and imagines it to be the prick of conscience, thestill, small voice that is urging him ever to righteousness.  Ifthe digression is unusual enough, the drag of habit will be heavyenough to cause the unreasoning victim to return and perform theperfunctory thing.  "Now, bless me," says such a mind, "I havedone my duty," when, as a matter of fact, it has merely done itsold, unbreakable trick once again.

Carrie had no excellent home principles fixed upon her. If shehad, she would have been more consciously distressed.  Now thelunch went off with considerable warmth.  Under the influence ofthe varied occurrences, the fine, invisible passion which wasemanating from Drouet, the food, the still unusual luxury, she

relaxed and heard with open ears.  She was again the victim ofthe city's hypnotic influence.

"Well," said Drouet at last, "we had better be going."

They had been dawdling over the dishes, and their eyes hadfrequently met.  Carrie could not help but feel the vibration offorce which followed, which, indeed, was his gaze.  He had a wayof touching her hand in explanation, as if to impress a fact uponher.  He touched it now as he spoke of going.

They arose and went out into the street.  The downtown sectionwas now bare, save for a few whistling strollers, a few owl cars,a few open resorts whose windows were still bright.  Out WabashAvenue they strolled, Drouet still pouring forth his volume ofsmall information.  He had Carrie's arm in his, and held itclosely as he explained.  Once in a while, after some witticism,he would look down, and his eyes would meet hers.  At last theycame to the steps, and Carrie stood up on the first one, her headnow coming even with his own.  He took her hand and held itgenially.  He looked steadily at her as she glanced about, warmlymusing.

At about that hour, Minnie was soundly sleeping, after a longevening of troubled thought.  She had her elbow in an awkwardposition under her side.  The muscles so held irritated a fewnerves, and now a vague scene floated in on the drowsy mind.  Shefancied she and Carrie were somewhere beside an old coal-mine.She could see the tall runway and the heap of earth and coal castout.  There was a deep pit, into which they were looking; theycould see the curious wet stones far down where the walldisappeared in vague shadows.  An old basket, used fordescending, was hanging there, fastened by a worn rope.

"Let's get in," said Carrie.

"Oh, no," said Minnie.

"Yes, come on," said Carrie.

She began to pull the basket over, and now, in spite of allprotest, she had swung over and was going down.

"Carrie," she called, "Carrie, come back"; but Carrie was fardown now and the shadow had swallowed her completely.

She moved her arm.

Now the mystic scenery merged queerly and the place was by watersshe had never seen.  They were upon some board or ground orsomething that reached far out, and at the end of this wasCarrie.  They looked about, and now the thing was sinking, andMinnie heard the low sip of the encroaching water.

"Come on, Carrie," she called, but Carrie was reaching fartherout.  She seemed to recede, and now it was difficult to call toher.

"Carrie," she called, "Carrie," but her own voice sounded faraway, and the strange waters were blurring everything.  She cameaway suffering as though she had lost something.  She was moreinexpressibly sad than she had ever been in life.

It was this way through many shifts of the tired brain, thosecurious phantoms of the spirit slipping in, blurring strangescenes, one with the other.  The last one made her cry out, forCarrie was slipping away somewhere over a rock, and her fingershad let loose and she had seen her falling.

"Minnie!  What's the matter?  Here, wake up," said Hanson,disturbed, and shaking her by the shoulder.

"Wha--what's the matter?" said Minnie, drowsily.

"Wake up," he said, "and turn over.  You're talking in yoursleep."

A week or so later Drouet strolled into Fitzgerald and Moy's,spruce in dress and manner.

"Hello, Charley," said Hurstwood, looking out from his officedoor.

Drouet strolled over and looked in upon the manager at his desk."When do you go out on the road again?" he inquired.

"Pretty soon," said Drouet.

"Haven't seen much of you this trip," said Hurstwood.

"Well, I've been busy," said Drouet.

They talked some few minutes on general topics.

"Say," said Drouet, as if struck by a sudden idea, "I want you tocome out some evening."

"Out where?" inquired Hurstwood.

"Out to my house, of course," said Drouet, smiling.

Hurstwood looked up quizzically, the least suggestion of a smilehovering about his lips.  He studied the face of Drouet in hiswise way, and then with the demeanour of a gentleman, said:"Certainly; glad to."

"We'll have a nice game of euchre."

"May I bring a nice little bottle of Sec?" asked Hurstwood."Certainly," said Drouet.  "I'll introduce you."

Chapter IX

CONVENTION'S OWN TINDER-BOX--THE EYE THAT IS GREEN

Hurstwood's residence on the North Side, near Lincoln Park, was abrick building of a very popular type then, a three-story affairwith the first floor sunk a very little below the level of thestreet.  It had a large bay window bulging out from the secondfloor, and was graced in front by a small grassy plot, twenty-five feet wide and ten feet deep.  There was also a small rearyard, walled in by the fences of the neighbours and holding astable where he kept his horse and trap.

The ten rooms of the house were occupied by himself, his wifeJulia, and his son and daughter, George, Jr., and Jessica.  Therewere besides these a maid-servant, represented from time to timeby girls of various extraction, for Mrs. Hurstwood was not alwayseasy to please.

"George, I let Mary go yesterday," was not an unfrequentsalutation at the dinner table.

"All right," was his only reply.  He had long since wearied ofdiscussing the rancorous subject.

A lovely home atmosphere is one of the flowers of the world, thanwhich there is nothing more tender, nothing more delicate,nothing more calculated to make strong and just the naturescradled and nourished within it. Those who have never experiencedsuch a beneficent influence will not understand wherefore thetear springs glistening to the eyelids at some strange breath inlovely music.  The mystic chords which bind and thrill the heartof the nation, they will never know.

Hurstwood's residence could scarcely be said to be infused withthis home spirit.  It lacked that toleration and regard withoutwhich the home is nothing.  There was fine furniture, arranged assoothingly as the artistic perception of the occupants warranted.There were soft rugs, rich, upholstered chairs and divans, agrand piano, a marble carving of some unknown Venus by someunknown artist, and a number of small bronzes gathered fromheaven knows where, but generally sold by the large furniturehouses along with everything else which goes to make the"perfectly appointed house."

In the dining-room stood a sideboard laden with glisteningdecanters and other utilities and ornaments in glass, thearrangement of which could not be questioned.  Here was somethingHurstwood knew about. He had studied the subject for years in hisbusiness. He took no little satisfaction in telling each Mary,shortly after she arrived, something of what the art of the thingrequired.  He was not garrulous by any means. On the contrary,there was a fine reserve in his manner toward the entire domesticeconomy of his life which was all that is comprehended by thepopular term, gentlemanly.  He would not argue, he would not talkfreely.  In his manner was something of the dogmatist. What hecould not correct, he would ignore.  There was a tendency in himto walk away from the impossible thing.

There was a time when he had been considerably enamoured of hisJessica, especially when he was younger and more confined in hissuccess.  Now, however, in her seventeenth year, Jessica haddeveloped a certain amount of reserve and independence which wasnot inviting to the richest form of parental devotion. She was inthe high school, and had notions of life which were decidedlythose of a patrician.  She liked nice clothes and urged for themconstantly.  Thoughts of love and elegant individualestablishments were running in her head.  She met girls at thehigh school whose parents were truly rich and whose fathers hadstanding locally as partners or owners of solid businesses.These girls gave themselves the airs befitting the thrivingdomestic establishments from whence they issued.  They were theonly ones of the school about whom Jessica concerned herself.

Young Hurstwood, Jr., was in his twentieth year, and was alreadyconnected in a promising capacity with a large real estate firm.He contributed nothing for the domestic expenses of the family,but was thought to be saving his money to invest in real estate.He had some ability, considerable vanity, and a love of pleasurethat had not, as yet, infringed upon his duties, whatever theywere.  He came in and went out, pursuing his own plans andfancies, addressing a few words to his mother occasionally,relating some little incident to his father, but for the mostpart confining himself to those generalities with which mostconversation concerns itself.  He was not laying bare his desiresfor any one to see.  He did not find any one in the house whoparticularly cared to see.

Mrs. Hurstwood was the type of woman who has ever endeavoured toshine and has been more or less chagrined at the evidences ofsuperior capability in this direction elsewhere.  Her knowledgeof life extended to that little conventional round of society ofwhich she was not--but longed to be--a member.  She was notwithout realisation already that this thing was impossible, sofar as she was concerned.  For her daughter, she hoped betterthings.  Through Jessica she might rise a little.  ThroughGeorge, Jr.'s, possible success she might draw to herself theprivilege of pointing proudly.  Even Hurstwood was doing wellenough, and she was anxious that his small real estate adventuresshould prosper.  His property holdings, as yet, were rathersmall, but his income was pleasing and his position withFitzgerald and Moy was fixed.  Both those gentlemen were onpleasant and rather informal terms with him.

The atmosphere which such personalities would create must beapparent to all.  It worked out in a thousand littleconversations, all of which were of the same calibre.

"I'm going up to Fox Lake to-morrow," announced George, Jr., atthe dinner table one Friday evening.

"What's going on up there?" queried Mrs. Hurstwood.

"Eddie Fahrway's got a new steam launch, and he wants me to comeup and see how it works."

"How much did it cost him?" asked his mother.

"Oh, over two thousand dollars.  He says it's a dandy."

"Old Fahrway must be making money," put in Hurstwood.

"He is, I guess.  Jack told me they were shipping Vegacura toAustralia now--said they sent a whole box to Cape Town lastweek."

"Just think of that!" said Mrs. Hurstwood, "and only four yearsago they had that basement in Madison Street."

"Jack told me they were going to put up a six-story building nextspring in Robey Street."

"Just think of that!" said Jessica.

On this particular occasion Hurstwood wished to leave early.

"I guess I'll be going down town," he remarked, rising.

"Are we going to McVicker's Monday?" questioned Mrs. Hurstwood,without rising.

"Yes," he said indifferently.

They went on dining, while he went upstairs for his hat and coat.Presently the door clicked.

"I guess papa's gone," said Jessica.

The latter's school news was of a particular stripe.

"They're going to give a performance in the Lyceum, upstairs,"she reported one day, "and I'm going to be in it."

"Are you?" said her mother.

"Yes, and I'll have to have a new dress.  Some of the nicestgirls in the school are going to be in it.  Miss Palmer is goingto take the part of Portia."

"Is she?" said Mrs. Hurstwood.

"They've got that Martha Griswold in it again.  She thinks shecan act."

"Her family doesn't amount to anything, does it?" said Mrs.Hurstwood sympathetically.  "They haven't anything, have they?"

"No," returned Jessica, "they're poor as church mice."

She distinguished very carefully between the young boys of theschool, many of whom were attracted by her beauty.

"What do you think?" she remarked to her mother one evening;"that Herbert Crane tried to make friends with me."

"Who is he, my dear?" inquired Mrs. Hurstwood.

"Oh, no one," said Jessica, pursing her pretty lips. "He's just astudent there.  He hasn't anything."

The other half of this picture came when young Blyford, son ofBlyford, the soap manufacturer, walked home with her. Mrs.Hurstwood was on the third floor, sitting in a rocking-chairreading, and happened to look out at the time.

"Who was that with you, Jessica?" she inquired, as Jessica cameupstairs.

"It's Mr. Blyford, mamma," she replied.

"Is it?" said Mrs. Hurstwood.

"Yes, and he wants me to stroll over into the park with him,"explained Jessica, a little flushed with running up the stairs.

"All right, my dear," said Mrs. Hurstwood.  "Don't be gone long."

As the two went down the street, she glanced interestedly out ofthe window.  It was a most satisfactory spectacle indeed, mostsatisfactory.

In this atmosphere Hurstwood had moved for a number of years, notthinking deeply concerning it.  His was not the order of natureto trouble for something better, unless the better wasimmediately and sharply contrasted.  As it was, he received andgave, irritated sometimes by the little displays of selfishindifference, pleased at times by some show of finery whichsupposedly made for dignity and social distinction.  The life ofthe resort which he managed was his life.  There he spent most ofhis time.  When he went home evenings the house looked nice.With rare exceptions the meals were acceptable, being the kindthat an ordinary servant can arrange.  In part, he was interestedin the talk of his son and daughter, who always looked well.  Thevanity of Mrs. Hurstwood caused her to keep her person rathershowily arrayed, but to Hurstwood this was much better thanplainness. There was no love lost between them.  There was nogreat feeling of dissatisfaction.  Her opinion on any subject wasnot startling.  They did not talk enough together to come to theargument of any one point.  In the accepted and popular phrase,she had her ideas and he had his.  Once in a while he would meeta woman whose youth, sprightliness, and humour would make hiswife seem rather deficient by contrast, but the temporarydissatisfaction which such an encounter might arouse would becounterbalanced by his social position and a certain matter ofpolicy.  He could not complicate his home life, because it mightaffect his relations with his employers.  They wanted noscandals. A man, to hold his position, must have a dignifiedmanner, a clean record, a respectable home anchorage. Thereforehe was circumspect in all he did, and whenever he appeared in thepublic ways in the afternoon, or on Sunday, it was with his wife,and sometimes his children.  He would visit the local resorts, orthose near by in Wisconsin, and spend a few stiff, polished daysstrolling about conventional places doing conventional things.He knew the need of it.

When some one of the many middle-class individuals whom he knew,who had money, would get into trouble, he would shake his head.It didn't do to talk about those things.  If it came up fordiscussion among such friends as with him passed for close, hewould deprecate the folly of the thing.  "It was all right to doit--all men do those things--but why wasn't he careful?  A mancan't be too careful."  He lost sympathy for the man that made amistake and was found out.

On this account he still devoted some time to showing his wifeabout--time which would have been wearisome indeed if it had notbeen for the people he would meet and the little enjoyments whichdid not depend upon her presence or absence.  He watched her withconsiderable curiosity at times, for she was still attractive ina way and men looked at her.  She was affable, vain, subject toflattery, and this combination, he knew quite well, might producea tragedy in a woman of her home position.  Owing to his order ofmind, his confidence in the sex was not great.  His wife neverpossessed the virtues which would win the confidence andadmiration of a man of his nature.  As long as she loved himvigorously he could see how confidence could be, but when thatwas no longer the binding chain--well, something might happen.

During the last year or two the expenses of the family seemed alarge thing.  Jessica wanted fine clothes, and Mrs. Hurstwood,not to be outshone by her daughter, also frequently enlivened herapparel.  Hurstwood had said nothing in the past, but one day hemurmured.

"Jessica must have a new dress this month," said Mrs. Hurstwoodone morning.

Hurstwood was arraying himself in one of his perfection vestsbefore the glass at the time.

"I thought she just bought one," he said.

"That was just something for evening wear," returned his wifecomplacently.

"It seems to me," returned Hurstwood, "that she's spending a gooddeal for dresses of late."

"Well, she's going out more," concluded his wife, but the tone ofhis voice impressed her as containing something she had not heardthere before.

He was not a man who traveled much, but when he did, he had beenaccustomed to take her along.  On one occasion recently a localaldermanic junket had been arranged to visit Philadelphia--ajunket that was to last ten days.  Hurstwood had been invited.

"Nobody knows us down there," said one, a gentleman whose facewas a slight improvement over gross ignorance and sensuality.  Healways wore a silk hat of most imposing proportions.  "We canhave a good time." His left eye moved with just the semblance ofa wink. "You want to come along, George."

The next day Hurstwood announced his intention to his wife.

"I'm going away, Julia," he said, "for a few days."

"Where?" she asked, looking up.

"To Philadelphia, on business."

She looked at him consciously, expecting something else.

"I'll have to leave you behind this time."

"All right," she replied, but he could see that she was thinkingthat it was a curious thing.  Before he went she asked him a fewmore questions, and that irritated him.  He began to feel thatshe was a disagreeable attachment.

On this trip he enjoyed himself thoroughly, and when it was overhe was sorry to get back.  He was not willingly a prevaricator,and hated thoroughly to make explanations concerning it.  Thewhole incident was glossed over with general remarks, but Mrs.Hurstwood gave the subject considerable thought.  She drove outmore, dressed better, and attended theatres freely to make up forit.

Such an atmosphere could hardly come under the category of homelife.  It ran along by force of habit, by force of conventionalopinion.  With the lapse of time it must necessarily become dryerand dryer--must eventually be tinder, easily lighted anddestroyed.

Chapter X

THE COUNSEL OF WINTER--FORTUNE'S AMBASSADOR CALLS

In the light of the world's attitude toward woman and her duties,the nature of Carrie's mental state deserves consideration.Actions such as hers are measured by an arbitrary scale.  Societypossesses a conventional standard whereby it judges all things.All men should be good, all women virtuous.  Wherefore, villain,hast thou failed?

For all the liberal analysis of Spencer and our modernnaturalistic philosophers, we have but an infantile perception ofmorals.  There is more in the subject than mere conformity to alaw of evolution.  It is yet deeper than conformity to things ofearth alone.  It is more involved than we, as yet, perceive.Answer, first, why the heart thrills; explain wherefore someplaintive note goes wandering about the world, undying; makeclear the rose's subtle alchemy evolving its ruddy lamp in lightand rain.  In the essence of these facts lie the first principlesof morals.

"Oh," thought Drouet, "how delicious is my conquest."

"Ah," thought Carrie, with mournful misgivings, "what is it Ihave lost?"

Before this world-old proposition we stand, serious, interested,confused; endeavouring to evolve the true theory of morals--thetrue answer to what is right.

In the view of a certain stratum of society, Carrie wascomfortably established--in the eyes of the starveling, beaten byevery wind and gusty sheet of rain, she was safe in a halcyonharbour.  Drouet had taken three rooms, furnished, in OgdenPlace, facing Union Park, on the West Side.  That was a little,green-carpeted breathing spot, than which, to-day, there isnothing more beautiful in Chicago.  It afforded a vista pleasantto contemplate.  The best room looked out upon the lawn of thepark, now sear and brown, where a little lake lay sheltered.Over the bare limbs of the trees, which now swayed in the wintrywind, rose the steeple of the Union Park Congregational Church,and far off the towers of several others.

The rooms were comfortably enough furnished.  There was a goodBrussels carpet on the floor, rich in dull red and lemon shades,and representing large jardinieres filled with gorgeous,impossible flowers.  There was a large pier-glass mirror betweenthe two windows.  A large, soft, green, plush-covered couchoccupied one corner, and several rocking-chairs were set about.Some pictures, several rugs, a few small pieces of bric-a-brac,and the tale of contents is told.

In the bedroom, off the front room, was Carrie's trunk, bought byDrouet, and in the wardrobe built into the wall quite an array ofclothing--more than she had ever possessed before, and of verybecoming designs.  There was a third room for possible use as akitchen, where Drouet had Carrie establish a little portable gasstove for the preparation of small lunches, oysters, Welshrarebits, and the like, of which he was exceedingly fond; and,lastly, a bath.  The whole place was cosey, in that it waslighted by gas and heated by furnace registers, possessing also asmall grate, set with an asbestos back, a method of cheerfulwarming which was then first coming into use.  By her industryand natural love of order, which now developed, the placemaintained an air pleasing in the extreme.

Here, then, was Carrie, established in a pleasant fashion, freeof certain difficulties which most ominously confronted her,laden with many new ones which were of a mental order, andaltogether so turned about in all of her earthly relationshipsthat she might well have been a new and different individual.She looked into her glass and saw a prettier Carrie than she hadseen before; she looked into her mind, a mirror prepared of herown and the world's opinions, and saw a worse.  Between these twoimages she wavered, hesitating which to believe.

"My, but you're a little beauty," Drouet was wont to exclaim toher.

She would look at him with large, pleased eyes.

"You know it, don't you?" he would continue.

"Oh, I don't know," she would reply, feeling delight in the factthat one should think so, hesitating to believe, though shereally did, that she was vain enough to think so much of herself.

Her conscience, however, was not a Drouet, interested to praise.There she heard a different voice, with which she argued,pleaded, excused.  It was no just and sapient counsellor, in itslast analysis.  It was only an average little conscience, a thingwhich represented the world, her past environment, habit,convention, in a confused way.  With it, the voice of the peoplewas truly the voice of God.

"Oh, thou failure!" said the voice.

"Why?" she questioned.

"Look at those about," came the whispered answer. "Look at thosewho are good.  How would they scorn to do what you have done.Look at the good girls; how will they draw away from such as youwhen they know you have been weak.  You had not tried before youfailed."

It was when Carrie was alone, looking out across the park, thatshe would be listening to this.  It would come infrequently--whensomething else did not interfere, when the pleasant side was nottoo apparent, when Drouet was not there.  It was somewhat clearin utterance at first, but never wholly convincing.  There wasalways an answer, always the December days threatened.  She wasalone; she was desireful; she was fearful of the whistling wind.The voice of want made answer for her.

Once the bright days of summer pass by, a city takes on thatsombre garb of grey, wrapt in which it goes about its laboursduring the long winter.  Its endless buildings look grey, its skyand its streets assume a sombre hue; the scattered, leaflesstrees and wind-blown dust and paper but add to the generalsolemnity of colour.  There seems to be something in the chillbreezes which scurry through the long, narrow thoroughfaresproductive of rueful thoughts.  Not poets alone, nor artists, northat superior order of mind which arrogates to itself allrefinement, feel this, but dogs and all men.  These feel as muchas the poet, though they have not the same power of expression.The sparrow upon the wire, the cat in the doorway, the dray horsetugging his weary load, feel the long, keen breaths of winter.It strikes to the heart of all life, animate and inanimate.  Ifit were not for the artificial fires of merriment, the rush ofprofit-seeking trade, and pleasure-selling amusements; if thevarious merchants failed to make the customary display within andwithout their establishments; if our streets were not strung withsigns of gorgeous hues and thronged with hurrying purchasers, wewould quickly discover how firmly the chill hand of winter laysupon the heart; how dispiriting are the days during which the sunwithholds a portion of our allowance of light and warmth.  We aremore dependent upon these things than is often thought.  We areinsects produced by heat, and pass without it.

In the drag of such a grey day the secret voice would reassertitself, feebly and more feebly.

Such mental conflict was not always uppermost.  Carrie was not byany means a gloomy soul.  More, she had not the mind to get firmhold upon a definite truth.  When she could not find her way outof the labyrinth of ill-logic which thought upon the subjectcreated, she would turn away entirely.

Drouet, all the time, was conducting himself in a model way forone of his sort.  He took her about a great deal, spent moneyupon her, and when he travelled took her with him.  There weretimes when she would be alone for two or three days, while hemade the shorter circuits of his business, but, as a rule, shesaw a great deal of him.

"Say, Carrie," he said one morning, shortly after they had soestablished themselves, "I've invited my friend Hurstwood to comeout some day and spend the evening with us."

"Who is he?" asked Carrie.  doubtfully.

"Oh, he's a nice man.  He's manager of Fitzgerald and Moy's."

"What's that?" said Carrie.

"The finest resort in town.  It's a way-up, swell place."

Carrie puzzled a moment.  She was wondering what Drouet had toldhim, what her attitude would be.

"That's all right," said Drouet, feeling her thought. "He doesn'tknow anything.  You're Mrs. Drouet now."

There was something about this which struck Carrie as slightlyinconsiderate.  She could see that Drouet did not have thekeenest sensibilities.

"Why don't we get married?" she inquired, thinking of the volublepromises he had made.

"Well, we will," he said, "just as soon as I get this little dealof mine closed up."

He was referring to some property which he said he had, and whichrequired so much attention, adjustment, and what not, thatsomehow or other it interfered with his free moral, personalactions.

"Just as soon as I get back from my Denver trip in January we'lldo it."

Carrie accepted this as basis for hope--it was a sort of salve toher conscience, a pleasant way out.  Under the circumstances,things would be righted.  Her actions would be justified.She really was not enamoured of Drouet.  She was more clever thanhe.  In a dim way, she was beginning to see where he lacked.  Ifit had not been for this, if she had not been able to measure andjudge him in a way, she would have been worse off than she was.She would have adored him.  She would have been utterly wretchedin her fear of not gaining his affection, of losing his interest,of being swept away and left without an anchorage.  As it was,she wavered a little, slightly anxious, at first, to gain himcompletely, but later feeling at ease in waiting.  She was notexactly sure what she thought of him--what she wanted to do.

When Hurstwood called, she met a man who was more clever thanDrouet in a hundred ways.  He paid that peculiar deference towomen which every member of the sex appreciates.  He was notoverawed, he was not overbold.  His great charm wasattentiveness.  Schooled in winning those birds of fine featheramong his own sex, the merchants and professionals who visitedhis resort, he could use even greater tact when endeavouring toprove agreeable to some one who charmed him.  In a pretty womanof any refinement of feeling whatsoever he found his greatestincentive.  He was mild, placid, assured, giving the impressionthat he wished to be of service only--to do something which wouldmake the lady more pleased.

Drouet had ability in this line himself when the game was worththe candle, but he was too much the egotist to reach the polishwhich Hurstwood possessed.  He was too buoyant, too full of ruddylife, too assured.  He succeeded with many who were not quiteschooled in the art of love.  He failed dismally where the womanwas slightly experienced and possessed innate refinement. In thecase of Carrie he found a woman who was all of the latter, butnone of the former.  He was lucky in the fact that opportunitytumbled into his lap, as it were.  A few years later, with alittle more experience, the slightest tide of success, and he hadnot been able to approach Carrie at all.

"You ought to have a piano here, Drouet," said Hurstwood, smilingat Carrie, on the evening in question, "so that your wife couldplay."

Drouet had not thought of that.

"So we ought," he observed readily.

"Oh, I don't play," ventured Carrie.

"It isn't very difficult," returned Hurstwood.  "You could dovery well in a few weeks."

He was in the best form for entertaining this evening. Hisclothes were particularly new and rich in appearance.  The coatlapels stood out with that medium stiffness which excellent clothpossesses.  The vest was of a rich Scotch plaid, set with adouble row of round mother-of-pearl buttons.  His cravat was ashiny combination of silken threads, not loud, not inconspicuous.What he wore did not strike the eye so forcibly as that whichDrouet had on, but Carrie could see the elegance of the material.Hurstwood's shoes were of soft, black calf, polished only to adull shine.  Drouet wore patent leather but Carrie could not helpfeeling that there was a distinction in favour of the softleather, where all else was so rich.  She noticed these thingsalmost unconsciously.  They were things which would naturallyflow from the situation. She was used to Drouet's appearance.

"Suppose we have a little game of euchre?" suggested Hurstwood,after a light round of conversation.  He was rather dexterous inavoiding everything that would suggest that he knew anything ofCarrie's past.  He kept away from personalities altogether, andconfined himself to those things which did not concernindividuals at all.  By his manner, he put Carrie at her ease,and by his deference and pleasantries he amused her.  Hepretended to be seriously interested in all she said.

"I don't know how to play," said Carrie.

"Charlie, you are neglecting a part of your duty," he observed toDrouet most affably.  "Between us, though," he went on, "we canshow you."

By his tact he made Drouet feel that he admired his choice.There was something in his manner that showed that he was pleasedto be there.  Drouet felt really closer to him than ever before.It gave him more respect for Carrie.  Her appearance came into anew light, under Hurstwood's appreciation.  The situation livenedconsiderably.

"Now, let me see," said Hurstwood, looking over Carrie's shouldervery deferentially.  "What have you?" He studied for a moment."That's rather good," he said.

"You're lucky.  Now, I'll show you how to trounce your husband.You take my advice."

"Here," said Drouet, "if you two are going to scheme together, Iwon't stand a ghost of a show.  Hurstwood's a regular sharp."

"No, it's your wife.  She brings me luck.  Why shouldn't shewin?"

Carrie looked gratefully at Hurstwood, and smiled at Drouet.  Theformer took the air of a mere friend.  He was simply there toenjoy himself.  Anything that Carrie did was pleasing to him,nothing more.

"There," he said, holding back one of his own good cards, andgiving Carrie a chance to take a trick.  "I count that cleverplaying for a beginner."

The latter laughed gleefully as she saw the hand coming her way.It was as if she were invincible when Hurstwood helped her.

He did not look at her often.  When he did, it was with a mildlight in his eye.  Not a shade was there of anything savegeniality and kindness.  He took back the shifty, clever gleam,and replaced it with one of innocence.  Carrie could not guessbut that it was pleasure with him in the immediate thing.  Shefelt that he considered she was doing a great deal.

"It's unfair to let such playing go without earning something,"he said after a time, slipping his finger into the little coinpocket of his coat.  "Let's play for dimes."

"All right," said Drouet, fishing for bills.

Hurstwood was quicker.  His fingers were full of new ten-centpieces.  "Here we are," he said, supplying each one with a littlestack.

"Oh, this is gambling," smiled Carrie.  "It's bad."

"No," said Drouet, "only fun.  If you never play for more thanthat, you will go to Heaven."

"Don't you moralise," said Hurstwood to Carrie gently, "until yousee what becomes of the money."

Drouet smiled.

"If your husband gets them, he'll tell you how bad it is."

Drouet laughed loud.

There was such an ingratiating tone about Hurstwood's voice, theinsinuation was so perceptible that even Carrie got the humour ofit.

"When do you leave?" said Hurstwood to Drouet.

"On Wednesday," he replied.

"It's rather hard to have your husband running about like that,isn't it?" said Hurstwood, addressing Carrie.

"She's going along with me this time," said Drouet.

"You must both go with me to the theatre before you go."

"Certainly," said Drouet.  "Eh, Carrie?"

"I'd like it ever so much," she replied.

Hurstwood did his best to see that Carrie won the money.  Herejoiced in her success, kept counting her winnings, and finallygathered and put them in her extended hand.  They spread a littlelunch, at which he served the wine, and afterwards he used finetact in going.

"Now," he said, addressing first Carrie and then Drouet with hiseyes, "you must be ready at 7.30.  I'll come and get you."

They went with him to the door and there was his cab waiting, itsred lamps gleaming cheerfully in the shadow.

"Now," he observed to Drouet, with a tone of good-fellowship,"when you leave your wife alone, you must let me show her arounda little.  It will break up her loneliness."

"Sure," said Drouet, quite pleased at the attention shown.

"You're so kind," observed Carrie.

"Not at all," said Hurstwood, "I would want your husband to do asmuch for me."

He smiled and went lightly away.  Carrie was thoroughlyimpressed.  She had never come in contact with such grace.  Asfor Drouet, he was equally pleased.

"There's a nice man," he remarked to Carrie, as they returned totheir cosey chamber.  "A good friend of mine, too."

"He seems to be," said Carrie.

Chapter XI

THE PERSUASION OF FASHION--FEELING GUARDS O'ER ITS OWN

Carrie was an apt student of fortune's ways--of fortune'ssuperficialities.  Seeing a thing, she would immediately set toinquiring how she would look, properly related to it.  Be itknown that this is not fine feeling, it is not wisdom.  Thegreatest minds are not so afflicted; and on the contrary, thelowest order of mind is not so disturbed.  Fine clothes to herwere a vast persuasion; they spoke tenderly and Jesuitically forthemselves.  When she came within earshot of their pleading,desire in her bent a willing ear.  The voice of the so-calledinanimate!  Who shall translate for us the language of thestones?

"My dear," said the lace collar she secured from Partridge's, "Ifit you beautifully; don't give me up."

"Ah, such little feet," said the leather of the soft new shoes;"how effectively I cover them.  What a pity they should ever wantmy aid."

Once these things were in her hand, on her person, she mightdream of giving them up; the method by which they came mightintrude itself so forcibly that she would ache to be rid of thethought of it, but she would not give them up.  "Put on the oldclothes--that torn pair of shoes," was called to her by herconscience in vain.  She could possibly have conquered the fearof hunger and gone back; the thought of hard work and a narrowround of suffering would, under the last pressure of conscience,have yielded, but spoil her appearance?--be old-clothed and poor-appearing?--never!

Drouet heightened her opinion on this and allied subjects in sucha manner as to weaken her power of resisting their influence.  Itis so easy to do this when the thing opined is in the line ofwhat we desire. In his hearty way, he insisted upon her goodlooks.  He looked at her admiringly, and she took it at its fullvalue.  Under the circumstances, she did not need to carryherself as pretty women do.  She picked that knowledge up fastenough for herself.  Drouet had a habit, characteristic of hiskind, of looking after stylishly dressed or pretty women on thestreet and remarking upon them.  He had just enough of thefeminine love of dress to be a good judge--not of intellect, butof clothes.  He saw how they set their little feet, how theycarried their chins, with what grace and sinuosity they swungtheir bodies.  A dainty, self-conscious swaying of the hips by awoman was to him as alluring as the glint of rare wine to atoper.  He would turn and follow the disappearing vision with hiseyes.  He would thrill as a child with the unhindered passionthat was in him.  He loved the thing that women love inthemselves, grace.  At this, their own shrine, he knelt withthem, an ardent devotee.

"Did you see that woman who went by just now?" he said to Carrieon the first day they took a walk together. "Fine stepper, wasn'tshe?"

Carrie looked, and observed the grace commended.

"Yes, she is," she returned, cheerfully, a little suggestion ofpossible defect in herself awakening in her mind.  If that was sofine, she must look at it more closely.  Instinctively, she felta desire to imitate it.  Surely she could do that too.

When one of her mind sees many things emphasized and re-emphasized and admired, she gathers the logic of it and appliesaccordingly.  Drouet was not shrewd enough to see that this wasnot tactful.  He could not see that it would be better to makeher feel that she was competing with herself, not others betterthan herself. He would not have done it with an older, wiserwoman, but in Carrie he saw only the novice.  Less clever thanshe, he was naturally unable to comprehend her sensibility.  Hewent on educating and wounding her, a thing rather foolish in onewhose admiration for his pupil and victim was apt to grow.

Carrie took the instructions affably.  She saw what Drouet liked;in a vague way she saw where he was weak. It lessens a woman'sopinion of a man when she learns that his admiration is sopointedly and generously distributed.  She sees but one object ofsupreme compliment in this world, and that is herself.  If a manis to succeed with many women, he must be all in all to each.

In her own apartments Carrie saw things which were lessons in thesame school.

In the same house with her lived an official of one of thetheatres, Mr. Frank A. Hale, manager of the Standard, and hiswife, a pleasing-looking brunette of thirty-five.  They werepeople of a sort very common in America today, who liverespectably from hand to mouth.  Hale received a salary of forty-five dollars a week.  His wife, quite attractive, affected thefeeling of youth, and objected to that sort of home life whichmeans the care of a house and the raising of a family.  LikeDrouet and Carrie, they also occupied three rooms on the floorabove.

Not long after she arrived Mrs. Hale established social relationswith her, and together they went about.  For a long time this washer only companionship, and the gossip of the manager's wifeformed the medium through which she saw the world.  Suchtrivialities, such praises of wealth, such conventionalexpression of morals as sifted through this passive creature'smind, fell upon Carrie and for the while confused her.

On the other hand, her own feelings were a corrective influence.The constant drag to something better was not to be denied.  Bythose things which address the heart was she steadily recalled.In the apartments across the hall were a young girl and hermother.  They were from Evansville, Indiana, the wife anddaughter of a railroad treasurer.  The daughter was here to studymusic, the mother to keep her company.

Carrie did not make their acquaintance, but she saw the daughtercoming in and going out.  A few times she had seen her at thepiano in the parlour, and not infrequently had heard her play.This young woman was particularly dressy for her station, andwore a jewelled ring or two which flashed upon her white fingersas she played.

Now Carrie was affected by music.  Her nervous compositionresponded to certain strains, much as certain strings of a harpvibrate when a corresponding key of a piano is struck.  She wasdelicately moulded in sentiment, and answered with vagueruminations to certain wistful chords.  They awoke longings forthose things which she did not have.  They caused her to clingcloser to things she possessed.  One short song the young ladyplayed in a most soulful and tender mood.  Carrie heard itthrough the open door from the parlour below.  It was at thathour between afternoon and night when, for the idle, thewanderer, things are apt to take on a wistful aspect.  The mindwanders forth on far journeys and returns with sheaves ofwithered and departed joys.  Carrie sat at her window lookingout.  Drouet had been away since ten in the morning.  She hadamused herself with a walk, a book by Bertha M. Clay which Drouethad left there, though she did not wholly enjoy the latter, andby changing her dress for the evening.  Now she sat looking outacross the park as wistful and depressed as the nature whichcraves variety and life can be under such circumstances.  As shecontemplated her new state, the strain from the parlour belowstole upward.  With it her thoughts became coloured and enmeshed.She reverted to the things which were best and saddest within thesmall limit of her experience.  She became for the moment arepentant.

While she was in this mood Drouet came in, bringing with him anentirely different atmosphere.  It was dusk and Carrie had

neglected to light the lamp.  The fire in the grate, too, hadburned low.

"Where are you, Cad?" he said, using a pet name he had given her.

"Here," she answered.

There was something delicate and lonely in her voice, but hecould not hear it.  He had not the poetry in him that would seeka woman out under such circumstances and console her for thetragedy of life.  Instead, he struck a match and lighted the gas.

"Hello," he exclaimed, "you've been crying."

Her eyes were still wet with a few vague tears.

"Pshaw," he said, "you don't want to do that."

He took her hand, feeling in his good-natured egotism that it wasprobably lack of his presence which had made her lonely.

"Come on, now," he went on; "it's all right.  Let's waltz alittle to that music."

He could not have introduced a more incongruous proposition.  Itmade clear to Carrie that he could not sympathise with her.  Shecould not have framed thoughts which would have expressed hisdefect or made clear the difference between them, but she feltit.  It was his first great mistake.

What Drouet said about the girl's grace, as she tripped outevenings accompanied by her mother, caused Carrie to perceive thenature and value of those little modish ways which women adoptwhen they would presume to be something.  She looked in themirror and pursed up her lips, accompanying it with a little tossof the head, as she had seen the railroad treasurer's daughterdo.  She caught up her skirts with an easy swing, for had notDrouet remarked that in her and several others, and Carrie wasnaturally imitative.  She began to get the hang of those littlethings which the pretty woman who has vanity invariably adopts.In short, her knowledge of grace doubled, and with it herappearance changed.  She became a girl of considerable taste.

Drouet noticed this.  He saw the new bow in her hair and the newway of arranging her locks which she affected one morning.

"You look fine that way, Cad," he said.

"Do I?" she replied, sweetly.  It made her try for other effectsthat selfsame day.

She used her feet less heavily, a thing that was brought about byher attempting to imitate the treasurer's daughter's gracefulcarriage.  How much influence the presence of that young woman inthe same house had upon her it would be difficult to say.  But,because of all these things, when Hurstwood called he had found ayoung woman who was much more than the Carrie to whom Drouet hadfirst spoken.  The primary defects of dress and manner hadpassed.  She was pretty, graceful, rich in the timidity born ofuncertainty, and with a something childlike in her large eyeswhich captured the fancy of this starched and conventional poseramong men.  It was the ancient attraction of the fresh for thestale.  If there was a touch of appreciation left in him for thebloom and unsophistication which is the charm of youth, itrekindled now.  He looked into her pretty face and felt thesubtle waves of young life radiating therefrom.  In that largeclear eye he could see nothing that his blase nature couldunderstand as guile.  The little vanity, if he could haveperceived it there, would have touched him as a pleasant thing.

"I wonder," he said, as he rode away in his cab, "how Drouet cameto win her."

He gave her credit for feelings superior to Drouet at the firstglance.

The cab plopped along between the far-receding lines of gas lampson either hand.  He folded his gloved hands and saw only thelighted chamber and Carrie's face.  He was pondering over thedelight of youthful beauty.

"I'll have a bouquet for her," he thought.  "Drouet won't mind."He never for a moment concealed the fact of her attraction forhimself.  He troubled himself not at all about Drouet's priority.He was merely floating those gossamer threads of thought which,like the spider's, he hoped would lay hold somewhere.  He did notknow, he could not guess, what the result would be.

A few weeks later Drouet, in his peregrinations, encountered oneof his well-dressed lady acquaintances in Chicago on his returnfrom a short trip to Omaha.  He had intended to hurry out toOgden Place and surprise Carrie, but now he fell into aninteresting conversation and soon modified his originalintention.

"Let's go to dinner," he said, little recking any chance meetingwhich might trouble his way.

"Certainly," said his companion.

They visited one of the better restaurants for a social chat.  Itwas five in the afternoon when they met; it was seven-thirtybefore the last bone was picked.

Drouet was just finishing a little incident he was relating, andhis face was expanding into a smile, when Hurstwood's eye caughthis own.  The latter had come in with several friends, and,seeing Drouet and some woman, not Carrie, drew his ownconclusion.

"Ah, the rascal," he thought, and then, with a touch of righteoussympathy, "that's pretty hard on the little girl."

Drouet jumped from one easy thought to another as he caughtHurstwood's eye.  He felt but very little misgiving, until he sawthat Hurstwood was cautiously pretending not to see.  Then someof the latter's impression forced itself upon him.  He thought ofCarrie and their last meeting.  By George, he would have toexplain this to Hurstwood.  Such a chance half-hour with an oldfriend must not have anything more attached to it than it reallywarranted.

For the first time he was troubled.  Here was a moralcomplication of which he could not possibly get the ends.Hurstwood would laugh at him for being a fickle boy.  He wouldlaugh with Hurstwood.  Carrie would never hear, his presentcompanion at table would never know, and yet he could not helpfeeling that he was getting the worst of it--there was some faintstigma attached, and he was not guilty.  He broke up the dinnerby becoming dull, and saw his companion on her car.  Then he wenthome.

"He hasn't talked to me about any of these later flames," thoughtHurstwood to himself.  "He thinks I think he cares for the girlout there."

"He ought not to think I'm knocking around, since I have justintroduced him out there," thought Drouet.

"I saw you," Hurstwood said, genially, the next time Drouetdrifted in to his polished resort, from which he could not stayaway.  He raised his forefinger indicatively, as parents do tochildren.

"An old acquaintance of mine that I ran into just as I was comingup from the station," explained Drouet.  "She used to be quite abeauty."

"Still attracts a little, eh?" returned the other, affecting tojest.

"Oh, no," said Drouet, "just couldn't escape her this time."

"How long are you here?" asked Hurstwood.

"Only a few days."

"You must bring the girl down and take dinner with me," he said."I'm afraid you keep her cooped up out there.  I'll get a box forJoe Jefferson."

"Not me," answered the drummer.  "Sure I'll come."

This pleased Hurstwood immensely.  He gave Drouet no credit forany feelings toward Carrie whatever.  He envied him, and now, ashe looked at the well-dressed jolly salesman, whom he so muchliked, the gleam of the rival glowed in his eye.  He began to"size up" Drouet from the standpoints of wit and fascination.  Hebegan to look to see where he was weak.  There was no disputingthat, whatever he might think of him as a good fellow, he felt acertain amount of contempt for him as a lover.  He could hoodwinkhim all right.  Why, if he would just let Carrie see one suchlittle incident as that of Thursday, it would settle the matter.He ran on in thought, almost exulting, the while he laughed andchatted, and Drouet felt nothing.  He had no power of analysingthe glance and the atmosphere of a man like Hurstwood.  He stoodand smiled and accepted the invitation while his friend examinedhim with the eye of a hawk.

The object of this peculiarly involved comedy was not thinking ofeither.  She was busy adjusting her thoughts and feelings tonewer conditions, and was not in danger of suffering disturbingpangs from either quarter.One evening Drouet found her dressing herself before the glass.

"Cad," said he, catching her, "I believe you're getting vain."

"Nothing of the kind," she returned, smiling.

"Well, you're mighty pretty," he went on, slipping his arm aroundher.  "Put on that navy-blue dress of yours and I'll take you tothe show."

"Oh, I've promised Mrs. Hale to go with her to the Exposition to-night," she returned, apologetically.

"You did, eh?" he said, studying the situation abstractedly.  "Iwouldn't care to go to that myself."

"Well, I don't know," answered Carrie, puzzling, but not offeringto break her promise in his favour.

Just then a knock came at their door and the maidservant handed aletter in.

"He says there's an answer expected," she explained.

"It's from Hurstwood," said Drouet, noting the superscription ashe tore it open.

"You are to come down and see Joe Jefferson with me to-night," itran in part.  "It's my turn, as we agreed the other day.  Allother bets are off."

"Well, what do you say to this?" asked Drouet, innocently, whileCarrie's mind bubbled with favourable replies.

"You had better decide, Charlie," she said, reservedly.

"I guess we had better go, if you can break that engagementupstairs," said Drouet.

"Oh, I can," returned Carrie without thinking.

Drouet selected writing paper while Carrie went to change herdress.  She hardly explained to herself why this latestinvitation appealed to her most

"Shall I wear my hair as I did yesterday?" she asked, as she cameout with several articles of apparel pending.

"Sure," he returned, pleasantly.

She was relieved to see that he felt nothing.  She did not credither willingness to go to any fascination Hurstwood held for her.It seemed that the combination of Hurstwood, Drouet, and herselfwas more agreeable than anything else that had been suggested.She arrayed herself most carefully and they started off,extending excuses upstairs.

"I say," said Hurstwood, as they came up the theatre lobby, "weare exceedingly charming this evening."

Carrie fluttered under his approving glance.

"Now, then," he said, leading the way up the foyer into thetheatre.

If ever there was dressiness it was here.  It was thepersonification of the old term spick and span.

"Did you ever see Jefferson?" he questioned, as he leaned towardCarrie in the box.

"I never did," she returned.

"He's delightful, delightful," he went on, giving the commonplacerendition of approval which such men know.  He sent Drouet aftera programme, and then discoursed to Carrie concerning Jeffersonas he had heard of him.  The former was pleased beyondexpression, and was really hypnotised by the environment, thetrappings of the box, the elegance of her companion.  Severaltimes their eyes accidentally met, and then there poured intohers such a flood of feeling as she had never before experienced.She could not for the moment explain it, for in the next glanceor the next move of the hand there was seeming indifference,mingled only with the kindest attention.

Drouet shared in the conversation, but he was almost dull incomparison.  Hurstwood entertained them both, and now it wasdriven into Carrie's mind that here was the superior man.  Sheinstinctively felt that he was stronger and higher, and yetwithal so simple.  By the end of the third act she was sure thatDrouet was only a kindly soul, but otherwise defective.  He sankevery moment in her estimation by the strong comparison.

"I have had such a nice time," said Carrie, when it was all overand they were coming out.

"Yes, indeed," added Drouet, who was not in the least aware thata battle had been fought and his defences weakened.  He was likethe Emperor of China, who sat glorying in himself, unaware thathis fairest provinces were being wrested from him.

"Well, you have saved me a dreary evening," returned Hurstwood."Good-night."

He took Carrie's little hand, and a current of feeling swept fromone to the other.

"I'm so tired," said Carrie, leaning back in the car when Drouetbegan to talk.

"Well, you rest a little while I smoke," he said, rising, andthen he foolishly went to the forward platform of the car andleft the game as it stood.

Chapter XII

OF THE LAMPS OF THE MANSIONS--THE AMBASSADOR PLEA

Mrs. Hurstwood was not aware of any of her husband's moraldefections, though she might readily have suspected histendencies, which she well understood.  She was a woman uponwhose action under provocation you could never count.  Hurstwood,for one, had not the slightest idea of what she would do undercertain circumstances.  He had never seen her thoroughly aroused.In fact, she was not a woman who would fly into a passion.  Shehad too little faith in mankind not to know that they wereerring.  She was too calculating to jeopardize any advantage shemight gain in the way of information by fruitless clamour.  Herwrath would never wreak itself in one fell blow.  She would waitand brood, studying the details and adding to them until herpower might be commensurate with her desire for revenge.  At thesame time, she would not delay to inflict any injury, big orlittle, which would wound the object of her revenge and stillleave him uncertain as to the source of the evil.  She was acold, self-centred woman, with many a thought of her own whichnever found expression, not even by so much as the glint of aneye.

Hurstwood felt some of this in her nature, though he did notactually perceive it.  He dwelt with her in peace and somesatisfaction.  He did not fear her in the least--there was nocause for it.  She still took a faint pride in him, which wasaugmented by her desire to have her social integrity maintained.She was secretly somewhat pleased by the fact that much of herhusband's property was in her name, a precaution which Hurstwoodhad taken when his home interests were somewhat more alluringthan at present.  His wife had not the slightest reason to feelthat anything would ever go amiss with their household, and yetthe shadows which run before gave her a thought of the good of itnow and then.  She was in a position to become refractory withconsiderable advantage, and Hurstwood conducted himselfcircumspectly because he felt that he could not be sure ofanything once she became dissatisfied.

It so happened that on the night when Hurstwood, Carrie, andDrouet were in the box at McVickar's, George, Jr., was in thesixth row of the parquet with the daughter of H. B. Carmichael,the third partner of a wholesale dry-goods house of that city.Hurstwood did not see his son, for he sat, as was his wont, asfar back as possible, leaving himself just partially visible,when he bent forward, to those within the first six rows inquestion.  It was his wont to sit this way in every theatre--tomake his personality as inconspicuous as possible where it wouldbe no advantage to him to have it otherwise.

He never moved but what, if there was any danger of his conductbeing misconstrued or ill-reported, he looked carefully about himand counted the cost of every inch of conspicuity.

The next morning at breakfast his son said:

"I saw you, Governor, last night."

"Were you at McVickar's?" said Hurstwood, with the best grace inthe world.

"Yes," said young George.

"Who with?"

"Miss Carmichael."

Mrs. Hurstwood directed an inquiring glance at her husband, butcould not judge from his appearance whether it was any more thana casual look into the theatre which was referred to.

"How was the play?" she inquired.

"Very good," returned Hurstwood, "only it's the same old thing,'Rip Van Winkle.'"

"Whom did you go with?" queried his wife, with assumedindifference.

"Charlie Drouet and his wife.  They are friends of Moy's,visiting here."

Owing to the peculiar nature of his position, such a disclosureas this would ordinarily create no difficulty.  His wife took itfor granted that his situation called for certain socialmovements in which she might not be included.  But of late he hadpleaded office duty on several occasions when his wife asked forhis company to any evening entertainment.  He had done so inregard to the very evening in question only the morning before.

"I thought you were going to be busy," she remarked, verycarefully.

"So I was," he exclaimed.  "I couldn't help the interruption, butI made up for it afterward by working until two."

This settled the discussion for the time being, but there was aresidue of opinion which was not satisfactory.  There was no timeat which the claims of his wife could have been moreunsatisfactorily pushed.  For years he had been steadilymodifying his matrimonial devotion, and found her company dull.Now that a new light shone upon the horizon, this older luminarypaled in the west.  He was satisfied to turn his face awayentirely, and any call to look back was irksome.

She, on the contrary, was not at all inclined to accept anythingless than a complete fulfilment of the letter of theirrelationship, though the spirit might be wanting.

"We are coming down town this afternoon," she remarked, a fewdays later.  "I want you to come over to Kinsley's and meet Mr.Phillips and his wife.  They're stopping at the Tremont, andwe're going to show them around a little."

After the occurrence of Wednesday, he could not refuse, thoughthe Phillips were about as uninteresting as vanity and ignorancecould make them.  He agreed, but it was with short grace.  He wasangry when he left the house.

"I'll put a stop to this," he thought.  "I'm not going to bebothered fooling around with visitors when I have work to do."

Not long after this Mrs. Hurstwood came with a similarproposition, only it was to a matinee this time.

"My dear," he returned, "I haven't time.  I'm too busy."

"You find time to go with other people, though," she replied,with considerable irritation.

"Nothing of the kind," he answered.  "I can't avoid businessrelations, and that's all there is to it."

"Well, never mind," she exclaimed.  Her lips tightened.  Thefeeling of mutual antagonism was increased.

On the other hand, his interest in Drouet's little shop-girl grewin an almost evenly balanced proportion.  That young lady, underthe stress of her situation and the tutelage of her new friend,changed effectively.  She had the aptitude of the struggler whoseeks emancipation.  The glow of a more showy life was not lostupon her.  She did not grow in knowledge so much as she awakenedin the matter of desire.  Mrs. Hale's extended harangues upon thesubjects of wealth and position taught her to distinguish betweendegrees of wealth.Mrs. Hale loved to drive in the afternoon in the sun when it wasfine, and to satisfy her soul with a sight of those mansions andlawns which she could not afford.  On the North Side had beenerected a number of elegant mansions along what is now known asthe North Shore Drive.  The present lake wall of stone andgranitoid was not then in place, but the road had been well laidout, the intermediate spaces of lawn were lovely to look upon,and the houses were thoroughly new and imposing.  When the winterseason had passed and the first fine days of the early springappeared, Mrs. Hale secured a buggy for an afternoon and invitedCarrie.  They rode first through Lincoln Park and on far outtowards Evanston, turning back at four and arriving at the northend of the Shore Drive at about five o'clock.  At this time ofyear the days are still comparatively short, and the shadows ofthe evening were beginning to settle down upon the great city.Lamps were beginning to burn with that mellow radiance whichseems almost watery and translucent to the eye.  There was asoftness in the air which speaks with an infinite delicacy offeeling to the flesh as well as to the soul.  Carrie felt that itwas a lovely day.  She was ripened by it in spirit for manysuggestions.  As they drove along the smooth pavement anoccasional carriage passed.  She saw one stop and the footmandismount, opening the door for a gentleman who seemed to beleisurely returning from some afternoon pleasure.  Across thebroad lawns, now first freshening into green, she saw lampsfaintly glowing upon rich interiors.  Now it was but a chair, nowa table, now an ornate corner, which met her eye, but it appealedto her as almost nothing else could.  Such childish fancies asshe had had of fairy palaces and kingly quarters now came back.She imagined that across these richly carved entrance-ways, wherethe globed and crystalled lamps shone upon panelled doors setwith stained and designed panes of glass, was neither care norunsatisfied desire.  She was perfectly certain that here washappiness.  If she could but stroll up yon broad walk, cross thatrich entrance-way, which to her was of the beauty of a jewel, andsweep in grace and luxury to possession and command--oh! howquickly would sadness flee; how, in an instant, would theheartache end.  She gazed and gazed, wondering, delighting,longing, and all the while the siren voice of the unrestful waswhispering in her ear.

"If we could have such a home as that," said Mrs. Hale sadly,"how delightful it would be."

"And yet they do say," said Carrie, "that no one is ever happy."

She had heard so much of the canting philosophy of the grapelessfox.

"I notice," said Mrs. Hale, "that they all try mighty hard,though, to take their misery in a mansion."

When she came to her own rooms, Carrie saw their comparativeinsignificance.  She was not so dull but that she could perceivethey were but three small rooms in a moderately well-furnishedboarding-house.  She was not contrasting it now with what she hadhad, but what she had so recently seen.  The glow of the palatialdoors was still in her eye, the roll of cushioned carriages stillin her ears.  What, after all, was Drouet?  What was she?  At herwindow, she thought it over, rocking to and fro, and gazing outacross the lamp-lit park toward the lamp-lit houses on Warren andAshland avenues.  She was too wrought up to care to go down toeat, too pensive to do aught but rock and sing.  Some old tunescrept to her lips, and, as she sang them, her heart sank.  Shelonged and longed and longed.  It was now for the old cottageroom in Columbia City, now the mansion upon the Shore Drive, nowthe fine dress of some lady, now the elegance of some scene.  Shewas sad beyond measure, and yet uncertain, wishing, fancying.Finally, it seemed as if all her state was one of loneliness andforsakenness, and she could scarce refrain from trembling at thelip.  She hummed and hummed as the moments went by, sitting inthe shadow by the window, and was therein as happy, though shedid not perceive it, as she ever would be.

While Carrie was still in this frame of mind, the house-servantbrought up the intelligence that Mr. Hurstwood was in the parlourasking to see Mr. and Mrs. Drouet.

"I guess he doesn't know that Charlie is out of town," thoughtCarrie.

She had seen comparatively little of the manager during thewinter, but had been kept constantly in mind of him by one thingand another, principally by the strong impression he had made.She was quite disturbed for the moment as to her appearance, butsoon satisfied herself by the aid of the mirror, and went below.

Hurstwood was in his best form, as usual.  He hadn't heard thatDrouet was out of town.  He was but slightly affected by theintelligence, and devoted himself to the more general topicswhich would interest Carrie.  It was surprising--the ease withwhich he conducted a conversation.  He was like every man who hashad the advantage of practice and knows he has sympathy.  He knewthat Carrie listened to him pleasurably, and, without the leasteffort, he fell into a train of observation which absorbed herfancy.  He drew up his chair and modulated his voice to such adegree that what he said seemed wholly confidential.  He confinedhimself almost exclusively to his observation of men andpleasures.  He had been here and there, he had seen this andthat.  Somehow he made Carrie wish to see similar things, and allthe while kept her aware of himself.  She could not shut out theconsciousness of his individuality and presence for a moment.  Hewould raise his eyes slowly in smiling emphasis of something, andshe was fixed by their magnetism.  He would draw out, with theeasiest grace, her approval.  Once he touched her hand foremphasis and she only smiled.  He seemed to radiate an atmospherewhich suffused her being.  He was never dull for a minute, andseemed to make her clever.  At least, she brightened under hisinfluence until all her best side was exhibited.  She felt thatshe was more clever with him than with others.  At least, heseemed to find so much in her to applaud.  There was not theslightest touch of patronage.  Drouet was full of it.

There had been something so personal, so subtle, in each meetingbetween them, both when Drouet was present and when he wasabsent, that Carrie could not speak of it without feeling a senseof difficulty.  She was no talker.  She could never arrange herthoughts in fluent order.  It was always a matter of feeling withher, strong and deep.  Each time there had been no sentence ofimportance which she could relate, and as for the glances andsensations, what woman would reveal them? Such things had neverbeen between her and Drouet.  As a matter of fact, they couldnever be.  She had been dominated by distress and theenthusiastic forces of relief which Drouet represented at anopportune moment when she yielded to him.  Now she was persuadedby secret current feelings which Drouet had never understood.Hurstwood's glance was as effective as the spoken words of alover, and more.  They called for no immediate decision, andcould not be answered.

People in general attach too much importance to words.  They areunder the illusion that talking effects great results.  As amatter of fact, words are, as a rule, the shallowest portion ofall the argument.  They but dimly represent the great surgingfeelings and desires which lie behind.  When the distraction ofthe tongue is removed, the heart listens.

In this conversation she heard, instead of his words, the voicesof the things which he represented.  How suave was the counsel ofhis appearance!  How feelingly did his superior state speak foritself!  The growing desire he felt for her lay upon her spiritas a gentle hand.  She did not need to tremble at all, because itwas invisible; she did not need to worry over what other peoplewould say--what she herself would say--because it had notangibility.  She was being pleaded with, persuaded, led intodenying old rights and assuming new ones, and yet there were nowords to prove it.  Such conversation as was indulged in held thesame relationship to the actual mental enactments of the twainthat the low music of the orchestra does to the dramatic incidentwhich it is used to cover.

"Have you ever seen the houses along the Lake Shore on the NorthSide?" asked Hurstwood.

"Why, I was just over there this afternoon--Mrs. Hale and I.Aren't they beautiful?"

"They're very fine," he answered.

"Oh, me," said Carrie, pensively.  "I wish I could live in such aplace."

"You're not happy," said Hurstwood, slowly, after a slight pause.

He had raised his eyes solemnly and was looking into her own.  Heassumed that he had struck a deep chord.  Now was a slight chanceto say a word in his own behalf.  He leaned over quietly andcontinued his steady gaze.  He felt the critical character of theperiod.  She endeavoured to stir, but it was useless.  The wholestrength of a man's nature was working.  He had good cause tourge him on.  He looked and looked, and the longer the situationlasted the more difficult it became.  The little shop-girl wasgetting into deep water.  She was letting her few supports floataway from her.

"Oh," she said at last, "you mustn't look at me like that."

"I can't help it," he answered.

She relaxed a little and let the situation endure, giving himstrength.

"You are not satisfied with life, are you?"

"No," she answered, weakly.

He saw he was the master of the situation--he felt it.  Hereached over and touched her hand.

"You mustn't," she exclaimed, jumping up.

"I didn't intend to," he answered, easily.

She did not run away, as she might have done.  She did notterminate the interview, but he drifted off into a pleasant fieldof thought with the readiest grace.  Not long after he rose togo, and she felt that he was in power."You mustn't feel bad," he said, kindly; "things will straightenout in the course of time."

She made no answer, because she could think of nothing to say.

"We are good friends, aren't we?" he said, extending his hand.

"Yes," she answered.

"Not a word, then, until I see you again."

He retained a hold on her hand.

"I can't promise," she said, doubtfully.

"You must be more generous than that," he said, in such a simpleway that she was touched.

"Let's not talk about it any more," she returned.

"All right," he said, brightening.

He went down the steps and into his cab.  Carrie closed the doorand ascended into her room.  She undid her broad lace collarbefore the mirror and unfastened her pretty alligator belt whichshe had recently bought.

"I'm getting terrible," she said, honestly affected by a feelingof trouble and shame.  "I don't seem to do anything right."

She unloosed her hair after a time, and let it hang in loosebrown waves.  Her mind was going over the events of the evening.

"I don't know," she murmured at last, "what I can do."

"Well," said Hurstwood as he rode away, "she likes me all right;that I know."

The aroused manager whistled merrily for a good four miles to hisoffice an old melody that he had not recalled for fifteen years.

Chapter XIII

HIS CREDENTIALS ACCEPTED--A BABEL OF TONGUES

It was not quite two days after the scene between Carrie andHurstwood in the Ogden Place parlour before he again put in hisappearance.  He had been thinking almost uninterruptedly of her.Her leniency had, in a way, inflamed his regard.  He felt that hemust succeed with her, and that speedily.

The reason for his interest, not to say fascination, was deeperthan mere desire.  It was a flowering out of feelings which hadbeen withering in dry and almost barren soil for many years.  Itis probable that Carrie represented a better order of woman thanhad ever attracted him before.  He had had no love affair sincethat which culminated in his marriage, and since then time andthe world had taught him how raw and erroneous was his originaljudgment.  Whenever he thought of it, he told himself that, if hehad it to do over again, he would never marry such a woman.  Atthe same time, his experience with women in general had lessenedhis respect for the sex.  He maintained a cynical attitude, wellgrounded on numerous experiences.  Such women as he had knownwere of nearly one type, selfish, ignorant, flashy.  The wives ofhis friends were not inspiring to look upon.  His own wife haddeveloped a cold, commonplace nature which to him was anythingbut pleasing.  What he knew of that under-world where grovel thebeat-men of society (and he knew a great deal) had hardened hisnature.  He looked upon most women with suspicion--a single eyeto the utility of beauty and dress.  He followed them with akeen, suggestive glance.  At the same time, he was not so dullbut that a good woman commanded his respect.  Personally, he didnot attempt to analyse the marvel of a saintly woman.  He wouldtake off his hat, and would silence the light-tongued and thevicious in her presence--much as the Irish keeper of a Boweryhall will humble himself before a Sister of Mercy, and pay tollto charity with a willing and reverent hand.  But he would notthink much upon the question of why he did so.

A man in his situation who comes, after a long round of worthlessor hardening experiences, upon a young, unsophisticated, innocentsoul, is apt either to hold aloof, out of a sense of his ownremoteness, or to draw near and become fascinated and elated byhis discovery.  It is only by a roundabout process that such menever do draw near such a girl.  They have no method, nounderstanding of how to ingratiate themselves in youthful favour,save when they find virtue in the toils.  If, unfortunately, thefly has got caught in the net, the spider can come forth and talkbusiness upon its own terms.  So when maidenhood has wanderedinto the moil of the city, when it is brought within the circleof the "rounder" and the roue, even though it be at the outermostrim, they can come forth and use their alluring arts.

Hurstwood had gone, at Drouet's invitation, to meet a new baggageof fine clothes and pretty features.  He entered, expecting toindulge in an evening of lightsome frolic, and then lose track ofthe newcomer forever.  Instead he found a woman whose youth andbeauty attracted him.  In the mild light of Carrie's eye wasnothing of the calculation of the mistress.  In the diffidentmanner was nothing of the art of the courtesan.  He saw at oncethat a mistake had been made, that some difficult conditions hadpushed this troubled creature into his presence, and his interestwas enlisted.  Here sympathy sprang to the rescue, but it was notunmixed with selfishness.  He wanted to win Carrie because hethought her fate mingled with his was better than if it wereunited with Drouet's.  He envied the drummer his conquest as hehad never envied any man in all the course of his experience.

Carrie was certainly better than this man, as she was superior,mentally, to Drouet.  She came fresh from the air of the village,the light of the country still in her eye.  Here was neitherguile nor rapacity.  There were slight inherited traits of bothin her, but they were rudimentary.  She was too full of wonderand desire to be greedy.  She still looked about her upon thegreat maze of the city without understanding.  Hurstwood felt thebloom and the youth.  He picked her as he would the fresh fruitof a tree.  He felt as fresh in her presence as one who is takenout of the flash of summer to the first cool breath of spring.

Carrie, left alone since the scene in question, and having no onewith whom to counsel, had at first wandered from one strangemental conclusion to another, until at last, tired out, she gaveit up.  She owed something to Drouet, she thought.  It did notseem more than yesterday that he had aided her when she wasworried and distressed.  She had the kindliest feelings for himin every way.  She gave him credit for his good looks, hisgenerous feelings, and even, in fact, failed to recollect hisegotism when he was absent; but she could not feel any bindinginfluence keeping her for him as against all others.  In fact,such a thought had never had any grounding, even in Drouet'sdesires.

The truth is, that this goodly drummer carried the doom of allenduring relationships in his own lightsome manner and unstablefancy.  He went merrily on, assured that he was alluring all,that affection followed tenderly in his wake, that things wouldendure unchangingly for his pleasure.  When he missed some oldface, or found some door finally shut to him, it did not grievehim deeply.  He was too young, too successful.  He would remainthus young in spirit until he was dead.

As for Hurstwood, he was alive with thoughts and feelingsconcerning Carrie.  He had no definite plans regarding her, buthe was determined to make her confess an affection for him.  Hethought he saw in her drooping eye, her unstable glance, herwavering manner, the symptoms of a budding passion.  He wanted tostand near her and make her lay her hand in his--he wanted tofind out what her next step would be--what the next sign offeeling for him would be.  Such anxiety and enthusiasm had notaffected him for years.  He was a youth again in feeling--acavalier in action.

In his position opportunity for taking his evenings out wasexcellent.  He was a most faithful worker in general, and a manwho commanded the confidence of his employers in so far as thedistribution of his time was concerned.  He could take such hoursoff as he chose, for it was well known that he fulfilled hismanagerial duties successfully, whatever time he might take.  Hisgrace, tact, and ornate appearance gave the place an air whichwas most essential, while at the same time his long experiencemade him a most excellent judge of its stock necessities.Bartenders and assistants might come and go, singly or in groups,but, so long as he was present, the host of old-time customerswould barely notice the change.  He gave the place the atmosphereto which they were used.  Consequently, he arranged his hoursvery much to suit himself, taking now an afternoon, now anevening, but invariably returning between eleven and twelve towitness the last hour or two of the day's business and look afterthe closing details.

"You see that things are safe and all the employees are out whenyou go home, George," Moy had once remarked to him, and he neveronce, in all the period of his long service, neglected to dothis.  Neither of the owners had for years been in the resortafter five in the afternoon, and yet their manager as faithfullyfulfilled this request as if they had been there regularly toobserve.

On this Friday afternoon, scarcely two days after his previousvisit, he made up his mind to see Carrie.  He could not stay awaylonger.

"Evans," he said, addressing the head barkeeper, "if any onecalls, I will be back between four and five."

He hurried to Madison Street and boarded a horse-car, whichcarried him to Ogden Place in half an hour.

Carrie had thought of going for a walk, and had put on a lightgrey woollen dress with a jaunty double-breasted jacket.  She hadout her hat and gloves, and was fastening a white lace tie abouther throat when the housemaid brought up the information that Mr.Hurstwood wished to see her.

She started slightly at the announcement, but told the girl tosay that she would come down in a moment, and proceeded to hastenher dressing.

Carrie could not have told herself at this moment whether she wasglad or sorry that the impressive manager was awaiting herpresence.  She was slightly flurried and tingling in the cheeks,but it was more nervousness than either fear or favour.  She didnot try to conjecture what the drift of the conversation wouldbe.  She only felt that she must be careful, and that Hurstwoodhad an indefinable fascination for her.  Then she gave her tieits last touch with her fingers and went below.

The deep-feeling manager was himself a little strained in thenerves by the thorough consciousness of his mission.  He feltthat he must make a strong play on this occasion, but now thatthe hour was come, and he heard Carrie's feet upon the stair, hisnerve failed him.  He sank a little in determination, for he wasnot so sure, after all, what her opinion might be.

When she entered the room, however, her appearance gave himcourage.  She looked simple and charming enough to strengthen thedaring of any lover.  Her apparent nervousness dispelled his own.

"How are you?" he said, easily.  "I could not resist thetemptation to come out this afternoon, it was so pleasant."

"Yes," said Carrie, halting before him, "I was just preparing togo for a walk myself."

"Oh, were you?" he said.  "Supposing, then, you get your hat andwe both go?"

They crossed the park and went west along Washington Boulevard,beautiful with its broad macadamised road, and large frame housesset back from the sidewalks.  It was a street where many of themore prosperous residents of the West Side lived, and Hurstwoodcould not help feeling nervous over the publicity of it.  Theyhad gone but a few blocks when a livery stable sign in one of theside streets solved the difficulty for him.  He would take her todrive along the new Boulevard.

The Boulevard at that time was little more than a country road.The part he intended showing her was much farther out on thissame West Side, where there was scarcely a house.  It connectedDouglas Park with Washington or South Park, and was nothing morethan a neatly MADE road, running due south for some five milesover an open, grassy prairie, and then due east over the samekind of prairie for the same distance.  There was not a house tobe encountered anywhere along the larger part of the route, andany conversation would be pleasantly free of interruption.

At the stable he picked a gentle horse, and they were soon out ofrange of either public observation or hearing.

"Can you drive?" he said, after a time.

"I never tried," said Carrie.

He put the reins in her hand, and folded his arms.

"You see there's nothing to it much," he said, smilingly.

"Not when you have a gentle horse," said Carrie.

"You can handle a horse as well as any one, after a littlepractice," he added, encouragingly.

He had been looking for some time for a break in the conversationwhen he could give it a serious turn.  Once or twice he had heldhis peace, hoping that in silence her thoughts would take thecolour of his own, but she had lightly continued the subject.Presently, however, his silence controlled the situation.  Thedrift of his thoughts began to tell.  He gazed fixedly at nothingin particular, as if he were thinking of something whichconcerned her not at all.  His thoughts, however, spoke forthemselves.  She was very much aware that a climax was pending.

"Do you know," he said, "I have spent the happiest evenings inyears since I have known you?"

"Have you?" she said, with assumed airiness, but still excited bythe conviction which the tone of his voice carried.

"I was going to tell you the other evening," he added, "butsomehow the opportunity slipped away."

Carrie was listening without attempting to reply.  She couldthink of nothing worth while to say.  Despite all the ideasconcerning right which had troubled her vaguely since she hadlast seen him, she was now influenced again strongly in hisfavour.

"I came out here to-day," he went on, solemnly, "to tell you justhow I feel--to see if you wouldn't listen to me."

Hurstwood was something of a romanticist after his kind.  He wascapable of strong feelings--often poetic ones--and under a stressof desire, such as the present, he waxed eloquent.  That is, hisfeelings and his voice were coloured with that seeming repressionand pathos which is the essence of eloquence.

"You know," he said, putting his hand on her arm, and keeping astrange silence while he formulated words, "that I love you?"Carrie did not stir at the words.  She was bound up completely inthe man's atmosphere.  He would have churchlike silence in orderto express his feelings, and she kept it.  She did not move hereyes from the flat, open scene before her.  Hurstwood waited fora few moments, and then repeated the words.

"You must not say that," she said, weakly.

Her words were not convincing at all.  They were the result of afeeble thought that something ought to be said.  He paid noattention to them whatever.

"Carrie," he said, using her first name with sympatheticfamiliarity, "I want you to love me.  You don't know how much Ineed some one to waste a little affection on me.  I ampractically alone.  There is nothing in my life that is pleasantor delightful.  It's all work and worry with people who arenothing to me."

As he said this, Hurstwood really imagined that his state waspitiful.  He had the ability to get off at a distance and viewhimself objectively--of seeing what he wanted to see in thethings which made up his existence.  Now, as he spoke, his voicetrembled with that peculiar vibration which is the result oftensity.  It went ringing home to his companion's heart.

"Why, I should think," she said, turning upon him large eyeswhich were full of sympathy and feeling, "that you would be veryhappy.  You know so much of the world."

"That is it," he said, his voice dropping to a soft minor, "Iknow too much of the world."

It was an important thing to her to hear one so well-positionedand powerful speaking in this manner.  She could not help feelingthe strangeness of her situation.  How was it that, in so littlea while, the narrow life of the country had fallen from her as agarment, and the city, with all its mystery, taken its place?Here was this greatest mystery, the man of money and affairssitting beside her, appealing to her.  Behold, he had ease andcomfort, his strength was great, his position high, his clothingrich, and yet he was appealing to her.  She could formulate nothought which would be just and right.  She troubled herself nomore upon the matter.  She only basked in the warmth of hisfeeling, which was as a grateful blaze to one who is cold.Hurstwood glowed with his own intensity, and the heat of hispassion was already melting the wax of his companion's scruples.

"You think," he said, "I am happy; that I ought not to complain?If you were to meet all day with people who care absolutelynothing about you, if you went day after day to a place wherethere was nothing but show and indifference, if there was not oneperson in all those you knew to whom you could appeal forsympathy or talk to with pleasure, perhaps you would be unhappytoo.

He was striking a chord now which found sympathetic response inher own situation.  She knew what it was to meet with people whowere indifferent, to walk alone amid so many who cared absolutelynothing about you.  Had not she?  Was not she at this very momentquite alone?  Who was there among all whom she knew to whom shecould appeal for sympathy?  Not one.  She was left to herself tobrood and wonder.

"I could be content," went on Hurstwood, "if I had you to loveme.  If I had you to go to; you for a companion.  As it is, Isimply move about from place to place without any satisfaction.Time hangs heavily on my hands.  Before you came I did nothingbut idle and drift into anything that offered itself.  Since youcame--well, I've had you to think about."

The old illusion that here was some one who needed her aid beganto grow in Carrie's mind.  She truly pitied this sad, lonelyfigure.  To think that all his fine state should be so barren forwant of her; that he needed to make such an appeal when sheherself was lonely and without anchor.  Surely, this was too bad.

"I am not very bad," he said, apologetically, as if he owed it toher to explain on this score.  "You think, probably, that I roamaround, and get into all sorts of evil?  I have been ratherreckless, but I could easily come out of that.  I need you todraw me back, if my life ever amounts to anything."

Carrie looked at him with the tenderness which virtue ever feelsin its hope of reclaiming vice.  How could such a man needreclaiming?  His errors, what were they, that she could correct?Small they must be, where all was so fine.  At worst, they weregilded affairs, and with what leniency are gilded errors viewed.He put himself in such a lonely light that she was deeply moved.

"Is it that way?" she mused.

He slipped his arm about her waist, and she could not find theheart to draw away.  With his free hand he seized upon herfingers.  A breath of soft spring wind went bounding over theroad, rolling some brown twigs of the previous autumn before it.The horse paced leisurely on, unguided.

"Tell me," he said, softly, "that you love me."

Her eyes fell consciously.

"Own to it, dear," he said, feelingly; "you do, don't you?"

She made no answer, but he felt his victory.

"Tell me," he said, richly, drawing her so close that their lipswere near together.  He pressed her hand warmly, and thenreleased it to touch her cheek.

"You do?" he said, pressing his lips to her own.

For answer, her lips replied.

"Now," he said, joyously, his fine eyes ablaze, "you're my owngirl, aren't you?"

By way of further conclusion, her head lay softly upon hisshoulder.

Chapter XIV

WITH EYES AND NOT SEEING--ONE INFLUENCE WANES

Carrie in her rooms that evening was in a fine glow, physicallyand mentally.  She was deeply rejoicing in her affection forHurstwood and his love, and looked forward with fine fancy totheir next meeting Sunday night.  They had agreed, without anyfeeling of enforced secrecy, that she should come down town andmeet him, though, after all, the need of it was the cause.

Mrs. Hale, from her upper window, saw her come in.

"Um," she thought to herself, "she goes riding with another manwhen her husband is out of the city.  He had better keep an eyeon her."

The truth is that Mrs. Hale was not the only one who had athought on this score.  The housemaid who had welcomed Hurstwoodhad her opinion also.  She had no particular regard for Carrie,whom she took to be cold and disagreeable.  At the same time, shehad a fancy for the merry and easy-mannered Drouet, who threw hera pleasant remark now and then, and in other ways extended herthe evidence of that regard which he had for all members of thesex.  Hurstwood was more reserved and critical in his manner.  Hedid not appeal to this bodiced functionary in the same pleasantway.  She wondered that he came so frequently, that Mrs. Drouetshould go out with him this afternoon when Mr. Drouet was absent.She gave vent to her opinions in the kitchen where the cook was.As a result, a hum of gossip was set going which moved about thehouse in that secret manner common to gossip.

Carrie, now that she had yielded sufficiently to Hurstwood toconfess her affection, no longer troubled about her attitudetowards him.  Temporarily she gave little thought to Drouet,thinking only of the dignity and grace of her lover and of hisconsuming affection for her.  On the first evening, she didlittle but go over the details of the afternoon.  It was thefirst time her sympathies had ever been thoroughly aroused, andthey threw a new light on her character.  She had some power ofinitiative, latent before, which now began to exert itself.  Shelooked more practically upon her state and began to seeglimmerings of a way out.  Hurstwood seemed a drag in thedirection of honour.  Her feelings were exceedingly creditable,in that they constructed out of these recent developmentssomething which conquered freedom from dishonour.  She had noidea what Hurstwood's next word would be.  She only took hisaffection to be a fine thing, and appended better, more generousresults accordingly.

As yet, Hurstwood had only a thought of pleasure withoutresponsibility.  He did not feel that he was doing anything tocomplicate his life.  His position was secure, his home-life, ifnot satisfactory, was at least undisturbed, his personal libertyrather untrammelled.  Carrie's love represented only so muchadded pleasure.  He would enjoy this new gift over and above hisordinary allowance of pleasure.  He would be happy with her andhis own affairs would go on as they had, undisturbed.

On Sunday evening Carrie dined with him at a place he hadselected in East Adams Street, and thereafter they took a cab towhat was then a pleasant evening resort out on Cottage GroveAvenue near 39th Street.  In the process of his declaration hesoon realised that Carrie took his love upon a higher basis thanhe had anticipated.  She kept him at a distance in a ratherearnest way, and submitted only to those tender tokens ofaffection which better become the inexperienced lover.  Hurstwoodsaw that she was not to be possessed for the asking, and deferredpressing his suit too warmly.

Since he feigned to believe in her married state he found that hehad to carry out the part.  His triumph, he saw, was still at alittle distance.  How far he could not guess.

They were returning to Ogden Place in the cab, when he asked:

"When will I see you again?"

"I don't know," she answered, wondering herself.

"Why not come down to The Fair," he suggested, "next Tuesday?"

She shook her head.

"Not so soon," she answered.

"I'll tell you what I'll do," he added.  "I'll write you, care ofthis West Side Post-office.  Could you call next Tuesday?"

Carrie assented.

The cab stopped one door out of the way according to his call.

"Good-night," he whispered, as the cab rolled away.

Unfortunately for the smooth progression of this affair, Drouetreturned.  Hurstwood was sitting in his imposing little officethe next afternoon when he saw Drouet enter.

"Why, hello, Charles," he called affably; "back again?"

"Yes," smiled Drouet, approaching and looking in at the door.

Hurstwood arose.

"Well," he said, looking the drummer over, "rosy as ever, eh?"

They began talking of the people they knew and things that hadhappened.

"Been home yet?" finally asked Hurstwood.

"No, I am going, though," said Drouet.

"I remembered the little girl out there," said Hurstwood, "andcalled once.  Thought you wouldn't want her left quite alone."

"Right you are," agreed Drouet.  "How is she?"

"Very well," said Hurstwood.  "Rather anxious about you though.You'd better go out now and cheer her up."

"I will," said Drouet, smilingly.

"Like to have you both come down and go to the show with meWednesday," concluded Hurstwood at parting.

"Thanks, old man," said his friend, "I'll see what the girl saysand let you know."

They separated in the most cordial manner.

"There's a nice fellow," Drouet thought to himself as he turnedthe corner towards Madison.

"Drouet is a good fellow," Hurstwood thought to himself as hewent back into his office, "but he's no man for Carrie."

The thought of the latter turned his mind into a most pleasantvein, and he wandered how he would get ahead of the drummer.

When Drouet entered Carrie's presence, he caught her in his armsas usual, but she responded to his kiss with a tremour ofopposition.

"Well," he said, "I had a great trip."

"Did you? How did you come out with that La Crosse man you weretelling me about?"

"Oh, fine; sold him a complete line.  There was another fellowthere, representing Burnstein, a regular hook-nosed sheeny, buthe wasn't in it.  I made him look like nothing at all."

As he undid his collar and unfastened his studs, preparatory towashing his face and changing his clothes, he dilated upon histrip.  Carrie could not help listening with amusement to hisanimated descriptions.

"I tell you," he said, "I surprised the people at the office.I've sold more goods this last quarter than any other man of ourhouse on the road.  I sold three thousand dollars' worth in LaCrosse."

He plunged his face in a basin of water, and puffed and blew ashe rubbed his neck and ears with his hands, while Carrie gazedupon him with mingled thoughts of recollection and presentjudgment.  He was still wiping his face, when he continued:

"I'm going to strike for a raise in June.  They can afford to payit, as much business as I turn in.  I'll get it too, don't youforget."

"I hope you do," said Carrie.

"And then if that little real estate deal I've got on goesthrough, we'll get married," he said with a great show ofearnestness, the while he took his place before the mirror andbegan brushing his hair.

"I don't believe you ever intend to marry me, Charlie," Carriesaid ruefully.  The recent protestations of Hurstwood had givenher courage to say this.

"Oh, yes I do--course I do--what put that into your head?"

He had stopped his trifling before the mirror now and crossedover to her.  For the first time Carrie felt as if she must moveaway from him.

"But you've been saying that so long," she said, looking with herpretty face upturned into his.

"Well, and I mean it too, but it takes money to live as I wantto.  Now, when I get this increase, I can come pretty near fixingthings all right, and I'll do it.  Now, don't you worry, girlie."

He patted her reassuringly upon the shoulder, but Carrie felt howreally futile had been her hopes.  She could clearly see thatthis easy-going soul intended no move in her behalf.  He wassimply letting things drift because he preferred the free roundof his present state to any legal trammellings.

In contrast, Hurstwood appeared strong and sincere.  He had noeasy manner of putting her off.  He sympathised with her andshowed her what her true value was.  He needed her, while Drouetdid not care.

"Oh, no," she said remorsefully, her tone reflecting some of herown success and more of her helplessness, "you never will."

"Well, you wait a little while and see," he concluded.  "I'llmarry you all right."

Carrie looked at him and felt justified.  She was looking forsomething which would calm her conscience, and here it was, alight, airy disregard of her claims upon his justice.  He hadfaithfully promised to marry her, and this was the way hefulfilled his promise.

"Say," he said, after he had, as he thought, pleasantly disposedof the marriage question, "I saw Hurstwood to-day, and he wantsus to go to the theatre with him."

Carrie started at the name, but recovered quickly enough to avoidnotice.

"When?" she asked, with assumed indifference.

"Wednesday.  We'll go, won't we?"

"If you think so," she answered, her manner being so enforcedlyreserved as to almost excite suspicion.  Drouet noticed somethingbut he thought it was due to her feelings concerning their talkabout marriage."He called once, he said."

"Yes," said Carrie, "he was out here Sunday evening."

"Was he?" said Drouet.  "I thought from what he said that he hadcalled a week or so ago."

"So he did," answered Carrie, who was wholly unaware of whatconversation her lovers might have held.  She was all at seamentally, and fearful of some entanglement which might ensue fromwhat she would answer.

"Oh, then he called twice?" said Drouet, the first shade ofmisunderstanding showing in his face.

"Yes," said Carrie innocently, feeling now that Hurstwood musthave mentioned but one call.

Drouet imagined that he must have misunderstood his friend.  Hedid not attach particular importance to the information, afterall.

"What did he have to say?" he queried, with slightly increasedcuriosity.

"He said he came because he thought I might be lonely.  Youhadn't been in there so long he wondered what had become of you."

"George is a fine fellow," said Drouet, rather gratified by hisconception of the manager's interest.  "Come on and we'll go outto dinner."

When Hurstwood saw that Drouet was back he wrote at once toCarrie, saying:

"I told him I called on you, dearest, when he was away.  I didnot say how often, but he probably thought once.  Let me know ofanything you may have said.  Answer by special messenger when youget this, and, darling, I must see you.  Let me know if you can'tmeet me at Jackson and Throop Streets Wednesday afternoon at twoo'clock.  I want to speak with you before we meet at thetheatre."

Carrie received this Tuesday morning when she called at the WestSide branch of the post-office, and answered at once.

"I said you called twice," she wrote.  "He didn't seem to mind.I will try and be at Throop Street if nothing interferes.  I seemto be getting very bad.  It's wrong to act as I do, I know."

Hurstwood, when he met her as agreed, reassured her on thisscore.

"You mustn't worry, sweetheart," he said.  "Just as soon as hegoes on the road again we will arrange something.  We'll fix itso that you won't have to deceive any one."

Carrie imagined that he would marry her at once, though he hadnot directly said so, and her spirits rose.  She proposed to makethe best of the situation until Drouet left again.

"Don't show any more interest in me than you ever have,"Hurstwood counselled concerning the evening at the theatre.

"You mustn't look at me steadily then," she answered, mindful ofthe power of his eyes.

"I won't," he said, squeezing her hand at parting and giving theglance she had just cautioned against.

"There," she said playfully, pointing a finger at him.

"The show hasn't begun yet," he returned.

He watched her walk from him with tender solicitation.  Suchyouth and prettiness reacted upon him more subtly than wine.

At the theatre things passed as they had in Hurstwood's favour.If he had been pleasing to Carrie before, how much more so was henow.  His grace was more permeating because it found a readiermedium.  Carrie watched his every movement with pleasure.  Shealmost forgot poor Drouet, who babbled on as if he were the host.

Hurstwood was too clever to give the slightest indication of achange.  He paid, if anything, more attention to his old friendthan usual, and yet in no way held him up to that subtle ridiculewhich a lover in favour may so secretly practise before themistress of his heart.  If anything, he felt the injustice of thegame as it stood, and was not cheap enough to add to it theslightest mental taunt.

Only the play produced an ironical situation, and this was due toDrouet alone.

The scene was one in "The Covenant," in which the wife listenedto the seductive voice of a lover in the absence of her husband.

"Served him right," said Drouet afterward, even in view of herkeen expiation of her error.  "I haven't any pity for a man whowould be such a chump as that."

"Well, you never can tell," returned Hurstwood gently.  "Heprobably thought he was right."

"Well, a man ought to be more attentive than that to his wife ifhe wants to keep her."

They had come out of the lobby and made their way through theshowy crush about the entrance way.

"Say, mister," said a voice at Hurstwood's side, "would you mindgiving me the price of a bed?"

Hurstwood was interestedly remarking to Carrie.

"Honest to God, mister, I'm without a place to sleep."

The plea was that of a gaunt-faced man of about thirty, wholooked the picture of privation and wretchedness.  Drouet was thefirst to see.  He handed over a dime with an upwelling feeling ofpity in his heart.  Hurstwood scarcely noticed the incident.Carrie quickly forgot.

Chapter XV

THE IRK OF THE OLD TIES--THE MAGIC OF YOUTH

The complete ignoring by Hurstwood of his own home came with thegrowth of his affection for Carrie.  His actions, in all thatrelated to his family, were of the most perfunctory kind.  He satat breakfast with his wife and children, absorbed in his ownfancies, which reached far without the realm of their interests.He read his paper, which was heightened in interest by theshallowness of the themes discussed by his son and daughter.Between himself and his wife ran a river of indifference.

Now that Carrie had come, he was in a fair way to be blissfulagain.  There was delight in going down town evenings.  When hewalked forth in the short days, the street lamps had a merrytwinkle.  He began to experience the almost forgotten feelingwhich hastens the lover's feet.  When he looked at his fineclothes, he saw them with her eyes--and her eyes were young.

When in the flush of such feelings he heard his wife's voice,when the insistent demands of matrimony recalled him from dreamsto a stale practice, how it grated.  He then knew that this was achain which bound his feet.

"George," said Mrs. Hurstwood, in that tone of voice which hadlong since come to be associated in his mind with demands, "wewant you to get us a season ticket to the races."

"Do you want to go to all of them?" he said with a risinginflection.

"Yes," she answered.

The races in question were soon to open at Washington Park, onthe South Side, and were considered quite society affairs amongthose who did not affect religious rectitude and conservatism.Mrs. Hurstwood had never asked for a whole season ticket before,but this year certain considerations decided her to get a box.For one thing, one of her neighbours, a certain Mr. and Mrs.Ramsey, who were possessors of money, made out of the coalbusiness, had done so.  In the next place, her favouritephysician, Dr. Beale, a gentleman inclined to horses and betting,had talked with her concerning his intention to enter a two-year-old in the Derby.  In the third place, she wished to exhibitJessica, who was gaining in maturity and beauty, and whom shehoped to marry to a man of means.  Her own desire to be about insuch things and parade among her acquaintances and common throngwas as much an incentive as anything.

Hurstwood thought over the proposition a few moments withoutanswering.  They were in the sitting room on the second floor,waiting for supper.  It was the evening of his engagement withCarrie and Drouet to see "The Covenant," which had brought himhome to make some alterations in his dress.

"You're sure separate tickets wouldn't do as well?" he asked,hesitating to say anything more rugged.

"No," she replied impatiently.

"Well," he said, taking offence at her manner, "you needn't getmad about it.  I'm just asking you."

"I'm not mad," she snapped.  "I'm merely asking you for a seasonticket."

"And I'm telling you," he returned, fixing a clear, steady eye onher, "that it's no easy thing to get.  I'm not sure whether themanager will give it to me."

He had been thinking all the time of his "pull" with the race-track magnates.

"We can buy it then," she exclaimed sharply.

"You talk easy," he said.  "A season family ticket costs onehundred and fifty dollars."

"I'll not argue with you," she replied with determination.  "Iwant the ticket and that's all there is to it."

She had risen, and now walked angrily out of the room.

"Well, you get it then," he said grimly, though in a modifiedtone of voice.

As usual, the table was one short that evening.

The next morning he had cooled down considerably, and later theticket was duly secured, though it did not heal matters.  He didnot mind giving his family a fair share of all that he earned,but he did not like to be forced to provide against his will.

"Did you know, mother," said Jessica another day, "the Spencersare getting ready to go away?"

"No.  Where, I wonder?"

"Europe," said Jessica.  "I met Georgine yesterday and she toldme.  She just put on more airs about it."

"Did she say when?"

"Monday, I think.  They'll get a notice in the papers again--theyalways do."

"Never mind," said Mrs. Hurstwood consolingly, "we'll go one ofthese days."

Hurstwood moved his eyes over the paper slowly, but said nothing.

"'We sail for Liverpool from New York,'" Jessica exclaimed,mocking her acquaintance.  "'Expect to spend most of the "summah"in France,'--vain thing.  As If it was anything to go to Europe."

"It must be if you envy her so much," put in Hurstwood.

It grated upon him to see the feeling his daughter displayed.

"Don't worry over them, my dear," said Mrs. Hurstwood.

"Did George get off?" asked Jessica of her mother another day,thus revealing something that Hurstwood had heard nothing about.

"Where has he gone?" he asked, looking up.  He had never beforebeen kept in ignorance concerning departures.

"He was going to Wheaton," said Jessica, not noticing the slightput upon her father.

"What's out there?" he asked, secretly irritated and chagrined tothink that he should be made to pump for information in thismanner.

"A tennis match," said Jessica.

"He didn't say anything to me," Hurstwood concluded, finding itdifficult to refrain from a bitter tone.

"I guess he must have forgotten," exclaimed his wife blandly.  Inthe past he had always commanded a certain amount of respect,which was a compound of appreciation and awe.  The familiaritywhich in part still existed between himself and his daughter hehad courted.  As it was, it did not go beyond the lightassumption of words.  The TONE was always modest.  Whatever hadbeen, however, had lacked affection, and now he saw that he waslosing track of their doings.  His knowledge was no longerintimate.  He sometimes saw them at table, and sometimes did not.He heard of their doings occasionally, more often not.  Some dayshe found that he was all at sea as to what they were talkingabout--things they had arranged to do or that they had done inhis absence.  More affecting was the feeling that there werelittle things going on of which he no longer heard.  Jessica wasbeginning to feel that her affairs were her own.  George, Jr.,flourished about as if he were a man entirely and must needs haveprivate matters.  All this Hurstwood could see, and it left atrace of feeling, for he was used to being considered--in hisofficial position, at least--and felt that his importance shouldnot begin to wane here.  To darken it all, he saw the sameindifference and independence growing in his wife, while helooked on and paid the bills.

He consoled himself with the thought, however, that, after all,he was not without affection.  Things might go as they would athis house, but he had Carrie outside of it.  With his mind's eyehe looked into her comfortable room in Ogden Place, where he hadspent several such delightful evenings, and thought how charmingit would be when Drouet was disposed of entirely and she waswaiting evenings in cosey little quarters for him.  That no causewould come up whereby Drouet would be led to inform Carrieconcerning his married state, he felt hopeful.  Things were goingso smoothly that he believed they would not change.  Shortly nowhe would persuade Carrie and all would be satisfactory.

The day after their theatre visit he began writing her regularly--a letter every morning, and begging her to do as much for him.He was not literary by any means, but experience of the world andhis growing affection gave him somewhat of a style.  This heexercised at his office desk with perfect deliberation.  Hepurchased a box of delicately coloured and scented writing paperin monogram, which he kept locked in one of the drawers.  Hisfriends now wondered at the cleric and very official-lookingnature of his position.  The five bartenders viewed with respectthe duties which could call a man to do so much desk-work andpenmanship.

Hurstwood surprised himself with his fluency.  By the natural lawwhich governs all effort, what he wrote reacted upon him.  Hebegan to feel those subtleties which he could find words toexpress.  With every expression came increased conception.  Thoseinmost breathings which there found words took hold upon him.  Hethought Carrie worthy of all the affection he could thereexpress.

Carrie was indeed worth loving if ever youth and grace are tocommand that token of acknowledgment from life in their bloom.Experience had not yet taken away that freshness of the spiritwhich is the charm of the body.  Her soft eyes contained in theirliquid lustre no suggestion of the knowledge of disappointment.She had been troubled in a way by doubt and longing, but thesehad made no deeper impression than could be traced in a certainopen wistfulness of glance and speech.  The mouth had theexpression at times, in talking and in repose, of one who mightbe upon the verge of tears.  It was not that grief was thus everpresent.  The pronunciation of certain syllables gave to her lipsthis peculiarity of formation--a formation as suggestive andmoving as pathos itself.

There was nothing bold in her manner.  Life had not taught herdomination--superciliousness of grace, which is the lordly powerof some women.  Her longing for consideration was notsufficiently powerful to move her to demand it.  Even now shelacked self-assurance, but there was that in what she had alreadyexperienced which left her a little less than timid.  She wantedpleasure, she wanted position, and yet she was confused as towhat these things might be.  Every hour the kaleidoscope of humanaffairs threw a new lustre upon something, and therewith itbecame for her the desired--the all.  Another shift of the box,and some other had become the beautiful, the perfect.

On her spiritual side, also, she was rich in feeling, as such anature well might be.  Sorrow in her was aroused by many aspectacle--an uncritical upwelling of grief for the weak and thehelpless.  She was constantly pained by the sight of the white-faced, ragged men who slopped desperately by her in a sort ofwretched mental stupor.  The poorly clad girls who went blowingby her window evenings, hurrying home from some of the shops ofthe West Side, she pitied from the depths of her heart.  Shewould stand and bite her lips as they passed, shaking her littlehead and wondering.  They had so little, she thought.  It was sosad to be ragged and poor.  The hang of faded clothes pained hereyes.

"And they have to work so hard!" was her only comment.

On the street sometimes she would see men working--Irishmen withpicks, coal-heavers with great loads to shovel, Americans busyabout some work which was a mere matter of strength--and theytouched her fancy.  Toil, now that she was free of it, seemedeven a more desolate thing than when she was part of it.  She sawit through a mist of fancy--a pale, sombre half-light, which wasthe essence of poetic feeling.  Her old father, in his flour-dusted miller's suit, sometimes returned to her in memory,revived by a face in a window.  A shoemaker pegging at his last,a blastman seen through a narrow window in some basement whereiron was being melted, a bench-worker seen high aloft in somewindow, his coat off, his sleeves rolled up; these took her backin fancy to the details of the mill.  She felt, though she seldomexpressed them, sad thoughts upon this score.  Her sympathieswere ever with that under-world of toil from which she had sorecently sprung, and which she best understood.

Though Hurstwood did not know it, he was dealing with one whosefeelings were as tender and as delicate as this.  He did notknow, but it was this in her, after all, which attracted him.  Henever attempted to analyse the nature of his affection.  It wassufficient that there was tenderness in her eye, weakness in hermanner, good nature and hope in her thoughts.  He drew near thislily, which had sucked its waxen beauty and perfume from below adepth of waters which he had never penetrated, and out of oozeand mould which he could not understand.  He drew near because itwas waxen and fresh.  It lightened his feelings for him.  It madethe morning worth while.

In a material way, she was considerably improved.  Herawkwardness had all but passed, leaving, if anything, a quaintresidue which was as pleasing as perfect grace.  Her little shoesnow fitted her smartly and had high heels.  She had learned muchabout laces and those little neckpieces which add so much to awoman's appearance.  Her form had filled out until it wasadmirably plump and well-rounded.

Hurstwood wrote her one morning, asking her to meet him inJefferson Park, Monroe Street.  He did not consider it policy tocall any more, even when Drouet was at home.

The next afternoon he was in the pretty little park by one, andhad found a rustic bench beneath the green leaves of a lilac bushwhich bordered one of the paths.  It was at that season of theyear when the fulness of spring had not yet worn quite away.  Ata little pond near by some cleanly dressed children were sailingwhite canvas boats.  In the shade of a green pagoda a bebuttonedofficer of the law was resting, his arms folded, his club at restin his belt.  An old gardener was upon the lawn, with a pair ofpruning shears, looking after some bushes.  High overhead was theclean blue sky of the new summer, and in the thickness of theshiny green leaves of the trees hopped and twittered the busysparrows.

Hurstwood had come out of his own home that morning feeling muchof the same old annoyance.  At his store he had idled, therebeing no need to write.  He had come away to this place with thelightness of heart which characterises those who put wearinessbehind.  Now, in the shade of this cool, green bush, he lookedabout him with the fancy of the lover.  He heard the carts golumbering by upon the neighbouring streets, but they were faroff, and only buzzed upon his ear.  The hum of the surroundingcity was faint, the clang of an occasional bell was as music.  Helooked and dreamed a new dream of pleasure which concerned hispresent fixed condition not at all.  He got back in fancy to theold Hurstwood, who was neither married nor fixed in a solidposition for life.  He remembered the light spirit in which heonce looked after the girls--how he had danced, escorted themhome, hung over their gates.  He almost wished he was back thereagain--here in this pleasant scene he felt as if he were whollyfree.

At two Carrie came tripping along the walk toward him, rosy andclean.  She had just recently donned a sailor hat for the seasonwith a band of pretty white-dotted blue silk.  Her skirt was of arich blue material, and her shirt waist matched it, with a thin-stripe of blue upon a snow-white ground--stripes that were asfine as hairs.  Her brown shoes peeped occasionally from beneathher skirt.  She carried her gloves in her hand.

Hurstwood looked up at her with delight.

"You came, dearest," he said eagerly, standing to meet her andtaking her hand.

"Of course," she said, smiling; "did you think I wouldn't?"

"I didn't know," he replied.

He looked at her forehead, which was moist from her brisk walk.Then he took out one of his own soft, scented silk handkerchiefsand touched her face here and there.

"Now," he said affectionately, "you're all right."

They were happy in being near one another--in looking into eachother's eyes.  Finally, when the long flush of delight had subsided, he said:

"When is Charlie going away again?"

"I don't know," she answered.  "He says he has some things to dofor the house here now."

Hurstwood grew serious, and he lapsed into quiet thought.  Helooked up after a time to say:

"Come away and leave him."

He turned his eyes to the boys with the boats, as if the requestwere of little importance.

"Where would we go?" she asked in much the same manner, rollingher gloves, and looking into a neighbouring tree.

"Where do you want to go?" he enquired.

There was something in the tone in which he said this which madeher feel as if she must record her feelings against any localhabitation.

"We can't stay in Chicago," she replied.

He had no thought that this was in her mind--that any removalwould be suggested.

"Why not?" he asked softly.

"Oh, because," she said, "I wouldn't want to."

He listened to this with but dull perception of what it meant.It had no serious ring to it.  The question was not up forimmediate decision.

"I would have to give up my position," he said.

The tone he used made it seem as if the matter deserved onlyslight consideration.  Carrie thought a little, the whileenjoying the pretty scene.

"I wouldn't like to live in Chicago and him here," she said,thinking of Drouet.

"It's a big town, dearest," Hurstwood answered.  "It would be asgood as moving to another part of the country to move to theSouth Side."

He had fixed upon that region as an objective point.

"Anyhow," said Carrie, "I shouldn't want to get married as longas he is here.  I wouldn't want to run away."

The suggestion of marriage struck Hurstwood forcibly.  He sawclearly that this was her idea--he felt that it was not to begotten over easily.  Bigamy lightened the horizon of his shadowythoughts for a moment.  He wondered for the life of him how itwould all come out.  He could not see that he was making anyprogress save in her regard.  When he looked at her now, hethought her beautiful.  What a thing it was to have her love him,even if it be entangling! She increased in value in his eyesbecause of her objection.  She was something to struggle for, andthat was everything.  How different from the women who yieldedwillingly! He swept the thought of them from his mind.

"And you don't know when he'll go away?" asked Hurstwood,quietly.

She shook her head.

He sighed.

"You're a determined little miss, aren't you?" he said, after afew moments, looking up into her eyes.

She felt a wave of feeling sweep over her at this.  It was prideat what seemed his admiration--affection for the man who couldfeel this concerning her.

"No," she said coyly, "but what can I do?"

Again he folded his hands and looked away over the lawn into thestreet.

"I wish," he said pathetically, "you would come to me.  I don'tlike to be away from you this way.  What good is there inwaiting? You're not any happier, are you?"

"Happier!" she exclaimed softly, "you know better than that."

"Here we are then," he went on in the same tone, "wasting ourdays.  If you are not happy, do you think I am? I sit and writeto you the biggest part of the time.  I'll tell you what,Carrie," he exclaimed, throwing sudden force of expression intohis voice and fixing her with his eyes, "I can't live withoutyou, and that's all there is to it.  Now," he concluded, showingthe palm of one of his white hands in a sort of at-an-end,helpless expression, "what shall I do?"

This shifting of the burden to her appealed to Carrie.  Thesemblance of the load without the weight touched the woman'sheart.

"Can't you wait a little while yet?" she said tenderly.  "I'lltry and find out when he's going."

"What good will it do?" he asked, holding the same strain offeeling.

"Well, perhaps we can arrange to go somewhere."

She really did not see anything clearer than before, but she wasgetting into that frame of mind where, out of sympathy, a womanyields.

Hurstwood did not understand.  He was wondering how she was to bepersuaded--what appeal would move her to forsake Drouet.  Hebegan to wonder how far her affection for him would carry her.He was thinking of some question which would make her tell.

Finally he hit upon one of those problematical propositions whichoften disguise our own desires while leading us to anunderstanding of the difficulties which others make for us, andso discover for us a way.  It had not the slightest connectionwith anything intended on his part, and was spoken at randombefore he had given it a moment's serious thought.

"Carrie," he said, looking into her face and assuming a seriouslook which he did not feel, "suppose I were to come to you nextweek, or this week for that matter--to-night say--and tell you Ihad to go away--that I couldn't stay another minute and wasn'tcoming back any more--would you come with me?"His sweetheart viewed him with the most affectionate glance, heranswer ready before the words were out of his mouth.

"Yes," she said.

"You wouldn't stop to argue or arrange?"

"Not if you couldn't wait."

He smiled when he saw that she took him seriously, and he thoughtwhat a chance it would afford for a possible junket of a week ortwo.  He had a notion to tell her that he was joking and so brushaway her sweet seriousness, but the effect of it was toodelightful.  He let it stand.

"Suppose we didn't have time to get married here?" he added, anafterthought striking him.

"If we got married as soon as we got to the other end of thejourney it would be all right."

"I meant that," he said.

"Yes."

The morning seemed peculiarly bright to him now.  He wonderedwhatever could have put such a thought into his head.  Impossibleas it was, he could not help smiling at its cleverness.  Itshowed how she loved him.  There was no doubt in his mind now,and he would find a way to win her.

"Well," he said, jokingly, "I'll come and get you one of theseevenings," and then he laughed.

"I wouldn't stay with you, though, if you didn't marry me,"Carrie added reflectively.

"I don't want you to," he said tenderly, taking her hand.

She was extremely happy now that she understood.  She loved himthe more for thinking that he would rescue her so.  As for him,the marriage clause did not dwell in his mind.  He was thinkingthat with such affection there could be no bar to his eventualhappiness.

"Let's stroll about," he said gayly, rising and surveying all thelovely park.

"All right," said Carrie.

They passed the young Irishman, who looked after them withenvious eyes.

"'Tis a foine couple," he observed to himself.  "They must berich."

Chapter XVI

A WITLESS ALADDIN--THE GATE TO THE WORLD

In the course of his present stay in Chicago, Drouet paid someslight attention to the secret order to which he belonged.During his last trip he had received a new light on itsimportance.

"I tell you," said another drummer to him, "it's a great thing.Look at Hazenstab.  He isn't so deuced clever.  Of course he'sgot a good house behind him, but that won't do alone.  I tell youit's his degree.  He's a way-up Mason, and that goes a long way.He's got a secret sign that stands for something."

Drouet resolved then and there that he would take more interestin such matters.  So when he got back to Chicago he repaired tohis local lodge headquarters.

"I say, Drouet," said Mr. Harry Quincel, an individual who wasvery prominent in this local branch of the Elks, "you're the manthat can help us out."

It was after the business meeting and things were going sociallywith a hum.  Drouet was bobbing around chatting and joking with ascore of individuals whom he knew.

"What are you up to?" he inquired genially, turning a smilingface upon his secret brother.

"We're trying to get up some theatricals for two weeks from to-day, and we want to know if you don't know some young lady whocould take a part--it's an easy part."

"Sure," said Drouet, "what is it?" He did not trouble to rememberthat he knew no one to whom he could appeal on this score.  Hisinnate good-nature, however, dictated a favourable reply.

"Well, now, I'll tell you what we are trying to do," went on Mr.Quincel.  "We are trying to get a new set of furniture for thelodge.  There isn't enough money in the treasury at the presenttime, and we thought we would raise it by a littleentertainment."

"Sure," interrupted Drouet, "that's a good idea."

"Several of the boys around here have got talent.  There's HarryBurbeck, he does a fine black-face turn.  Mac Lewis is all rightat heavy dramatics.  Did you ever hear him recite 'Over theHills'?"

"Never did."

"Well, I tell you, he does it fine."

"And you want me to get some woman to take a part?" questionedDrouet, anxious to terminate the subject and get on to somethingelse.  "What are you going to play?"

"'Under the Gaslight,'" said Mr. Quincel, mentioning AugustinDaly's famous production, which had worn from a great publicsuccess down to an amateur theatrical favourite, with many of thetroublesome accessories cut out and the dramatis personae reducedto the smallest possible number.

Drouet had seen this play some time in the past.

"That's it," he said; "that's a fine play.  It will go all right.You ought to make a lot of money out of that."

"We think we'll do very well," Mr. Quincel replied.  "Don't youforget now," he concluded, Drouet showing signs of restlessness;"some young woman to take the part of Laura."

"Sure, I'll attend to it."

He moved away, forgetting almost all about it the moment Mr.Quincel had ceased talking.  He had not even thought to ask thetime or place.

Drouet was reminded of his promise a day or two later by thereceipt of a letter announcing that the first rehearsal was setfor the following Friday evening, and urging him to kindlyforward the young lady's address at once, in order that the partmight be delivered to her.

"Now, who the deuce do I know?" asked the drummer reflectively,scratching his rosy ear.  "I don't know any one that knowsanything about amateur theatricals."

He went over in memory the names of a number of women he knew,and finally fixed on one, largely because of the convenientlocation of her home on the West Side, and promised himself thatas he came out that evening he would see her.  When, however, hestarted west on the car he forgot, and was only reminded of hisdelinquency by an item in the "Evening News"--a small three-lineaffair under the head of Secret Society Notes--which stated theCuster Lodge of the Order of Elks would give a theatricalperformance in Avery Hall on the 16th, when "Under the Gaslight"would be produced.

"George!" exclaimed Drouet, "I forgot that."

"What?" inquired Carrie.

They were at their little table in the room which might have beenused for a kitchen, where Carrie occasionally served a meal.  To-night the fancy had caught her, and the little table was spreadwith a pleasing repast.

"Why, my lodge entertainment.  They're going to give a play, andthey wanted me to get them some young lady to take a part."

"What is it they're going to play?"

"'Under the Gaslight.'"

"When?"

"On the 16th."

"Well, why don't you?" asked Carrie.

"I don't know any one," he replied.

Suddenly he looked up.

"Say," he said, "how would you like to take the part?"

"Me?" said Carrie.  "I can't act."

"How do you know?" questioned Drouet reflectively.

"Because," answered Carrie, "I never did."

Nevertheless, she was pleased to think he would ask.  Her eyesbrightened, for if there was anything that enlisted hersympathies it was the art of the stage.True to his nature, Drouet clung to this idea as an easy way out.

"That's nothing.  You can act all you have to down there."

"No, I can't," said Carrie weakly, very much drawn toward theproposition and yet fearful.

"Yes, you can.  Now, why don't you do it? They need some one, andit will be lots of fun for you."

"Oh, no, it won't," said Carrie seriously.

"You'd like that.  I know you would.  I've seen you dancingaround here and giving imitations and that's why I asked you.You're clever enough, all right."

"No, I'm not," said Carrie shyly.

"Now, I'll tell you what you do.  You go down and see about it.It'll be fun for you.  The rest of the company isn't going to beany good.  They haven't any experience.  What do they know abouttheatricals?"

He frowned as he thought of their ignorance.

"Hand me the coffee," he added.

"I don't believe I could act, Charlie," Carrie went on pettishly."You don't think I could, do you?"

"Sure.  Out o' sight.  I bet you make a hit.  Now you want to go,I know you do.  I knew it when I came home.  That's why I askedyou."

"What is the play, did you say?"

"'Under the Gaslight.'"

"What part would they want me to take?"

"Oh, one of the heroines--I don't know."

"What sort of a play is it?"

"Well," said Drouet, whose memory for such things was not thebest, "it's about a girl who gets kidnapped by a couple ofcrooks--a man and a woman that live in the slums.  She had somemoney or something and they wanted to get it.  I don't know nowhow it did go exactly."

"Don't you know what part I would have to take?"

"No, I don't, to tell the truth." He thought a moment.  "Yes, Ido, too.  Laura, that's the thing--you're to be Laura."

"And you can't remember what the part is like?"

"To save me, Cad, I can't," he answered.  "I ought to, too; I'veseen the play enough.  There's a girl in it that was stolen whenshe was an infant--was picked off the street or something--andshe's the one that's hounded by the two old criminals I wastelling you about." He stopped with a mouthful of pie poised on afork before his face.  "She comes very near getting drowned--no,that's not it.  I'll tell you what I'll do," he concludedhopelessly, "I'll get you the book.  I can't remember now for thelife of me."

"Well, I don't know," said Carrie, when he had concluded, herinterest and desire to shine dramatically struggling with hertimidity for the mastery.  "I might go if you thought I'd do allright."

"Of course, you'll do," said Drouet, who, in his efforts toenthuse Carrie, had interested himself.  "Do you think I'd comehome here and urge you to do something that I didn't think youwould make a success of? You can act all right.  It'll be goodfor you."

"When must I go?" said Carrie, reflectively.

"The first rehearsal is Friday night.  I'll get the part for youto-night."

"All right," said Carrie resignedly, "I'll do it, but if I make afailure now it's your fault."

"You won't fail," assured Drouet.  "Just act as you do aroundhere.  Be natural.  You're all right.  I've often thought you'dmake a corking good actress."

"Did you really?" asked Carrie.

"That's right," said the drummer.

He little knew as he went out of the door that night what asecret flame he had kindled in the bosom of the girl he leftbehind.  Carrie was possessed of that sympathetic, impressionablenature which, ever in the most developed form, has been the gloryof the drama.  She was created with that passivity of soul whichis always the mirror of the active world.  She possessed aninnate taste for imitation and no small ability.  Even withoutpractice, she could sometimes restore dramatic situations she hadwitnessed by re-creating, before her mirror, the expressions ofthe various faces taking part in the scene.  She loved tomodulate her voice after the conventional manner of thedistressed heroine, and repeat such pathetic fragments asappealed most to her sympathies.  Of late, seeing the airy graceof the ingenue in several well-constructed plays, she had beenmoved to secretly imitate it, and many were the little movementsand expressions of the body in which she indulged from time totime in the privacy of her chamber.  On several occasions, whenDrouet had caught her admiring herself, as he imagined, in themirror, she was doing nothing more than recalling some littlegrace of the mouth or the eyes which she had witnessed inanother.  Under his airy accusation she mistook this for vanityand accepted the blame with a faint sense of error, though, as amatter of fact, it was nothing more than the first subtleoutcroppings of an artistic nature, endeavouring to re-create theperfect likeness of some phase of beauty which appealed to her.In such feeble tendencies, be it known, such outworking of desireto reproduce life, lies the basis of all dramatic art.

Now, when Carrie heard Drouet's laudatory opinion of her dramaticability, her body tingled with satisfaction.  Like the flamewhich welds the loosened particles into a solid mass, his wordsunited those floating wisps of feeling which she had felt, butnever believed, concerning her possible ability, and made theminto a gaudy shred of hope.  Like all human beings, she had atouch of vanity.  She felt that she could do things if she onlyhad a chance.  How often had she looked at the well-dressedactresses on the stage and wondered how she would look, howdelightful she would feel if only she were in their place.  Theglamour, the tense situation, the fine clothes, the applause,these had lured her until she felt that she, too, could act--thatshe, too, could compel acknowledgment of power.  Now she was toldthat she really could--that little things she had done about thehouse had made even him feel her power.  It was a delightfulsensation while it lasted.

When Drouet was gone, she sat down in her rocking-chair by thewindow to think about it.  As usual, imagination exaggerated thepossibilities for her.  It was as if he had put fifty cents inher hand and she had exercised the thoughts of a thousanddollars.  She saw herself in a score of pathetic situations inwhich she assumed a tremulous voice and suffering manner.  Hermind delighted itself with scenes of luxury and refinement,situations in which she was the cynosure of all eyes, the arbiterof all fates.  As she rocked to and fro she felt the tensity ofwoe in abandonment, the magnificence of wrath after deception,the languour of sorrow after defeat.  Thoughts of all thecharming women she had seen in plays--every fancy, every illusionwhich she had concerning the stage--now came back as a returningtide after the ebb.  She built up feelings and a determinationwhich the occasion did not warrant.

Drouet dropped in at the lodge when he went down town, andswashed around with a great AIR, as Quincel met him.

"Where is that young lady you were going to get for us?" askedthe latter.

"I've got her," said Drouet.

"Have you?" said Quincel, rather surprised by his promptness;"that's good.  What's her address?" and he pulled out hisnotebook in order to be able to send her part to her.

"You want to send her her part?" asked the drummer.

"Yes."

"Well, I'll take it.  I'm going right by her house in themorning.

"What did you say her address was? We only want it in case wehave any information to send her."

"Twenty-nine Ogden Place."

"And her name?"

"Carrie Madenda," said the drummer, firing at random.  The lodgemembers knew him to be single.

"That sounds like somebody that can act, doesn't it?" saidQuincel.

"Yes, it does."

He took the part home to Carrie and handed it to her with themanner of one who does a favour.

"He says that's the best part.  Do you think you can do it?"

"I don't know until I look it over.  You know I'm afraid, nowthat I've said I would."

"Oh, go on.  What have you got to be afraid of? It's a cheapcompany.  The rest of them aren't as good as you are."

"Well, I'll see," said Carrie, pleased to have the part, for allher misgivings.

He sidled around, dressing and fidgeting before he arranged tomake his next remark.

"They were getting ready to print the programmes," he said, "andI gave them the name of Carrie Madenda.  Was that all right?"

"Yes, I guess so," said his companion, looking up at him.  Shewas thinking it was slightly strange.

"If you didn't make a hit, you know," he went on.

"Oh, yes," she answered, rather pleased now with his caution.  Itwas clever for Drouet.

"I didn't want to introduce you as my wife, because you'd feelworse then if you didn't GO.  They all know me so well.  Butyou'll GO all right.  Anyhow, you'll probably never meet any ofthem again."

"Oh, I don't care," said Carrie desperately.  She was determinednow to have a try at the fascinating game.

Drouet breathed a sigh of relief.  He had been afraid that he wasabout to precipitate another conversation upon the marriagequestion.

The part of Laura, as Carrie found out when she began to examineit, was one of suffering and tears.  As delineated by Mr. Daly,it was true to the most sacred traditions of melodrama as hefound it when he began his career.  The sorrowful demeanour, thetremolo music, the long, explanatory, cumulative addresses, allwere there.

"Poor fellow," read Carrie, consulting the text and drawing hervoice out pathetically.  "Martin, be sure and give him a glass ofwine before he goes."

She was surprised at the briefness of the entire part, notknowing that she must be on the stage while others were talking,and not only be there, but also keep herself in harmony with thedramatic movement of the scenes.

"I think I can do that, though," she concluded.

When Drouet came the next night, she was very much satisfied withher day's study.

"Well, how goes it, Caddie?" he said.

"All right," she laughed.  "I think I have it memorised nearly."

"That's good," he said.  "Let's hear some of it."

"Oh, I don't know whether I can get up and say it off here," shesaid bashfully.

"Well, I don't know why you shouldn't.  It'll be easier here thanit will there."

"I don't know about that," she answered.Eventually she took off the ballroom episode with considerablefeeling, forgetting, as she got deeper in the scene, all aboutDrouet, and letting herself rise to a fine state of feeling.

"Good," said Drouet; "fine, out o' sight! You're all rightCaddie, I tell you."

He was really moved by her excellent representation and thegeneral appearance of the pathetic little figure as it swayed andfinally fainted to the floor.  He had bounded up to catch her,and now held her laughing in his arms.

"Ain't you afraid you'll hurt yourself?" he asked.

"Not a bit."

"Well, you're a wonder.  Say, I never knew you could do anythinglike that."

"I never did, either," said Carrie merrily, her face flushed withdelight.

"Well, you can bet that you're all right," said Drouet.  "You cantake my word for that.  You won't fail."

Chapter XVII

A GLIMPSE THROUGH THE GATEWAY--HOPE LIGHTENS THE EYE

The, to Carrie, very important theatrical performance was to takeplace at the Avery on conditions which were to make it morenoteworthy than was at first anticipated.  The little dramaticstudent had written to Hurstwood the very morning her part wasbrought her that she was going to take part in a play.

"I really am," she wrote, feeling that he might take it as ajest; "I have my part now, honest, truly."

Hurstwood smiled in an indulgent way as he read this.

"I wonder what it is going to be? I must see that."

He answered at once, making a pleasant reference to her ability."I haven't the slightest doubt you will make a success.  You mustcome to the park to-morrow morning and tell me all about it."

Carrie gladly complied, and revealed all the details of theundertaking as she understood it.

"Well," he said, "that's fine.  I'm glad to hear it.  Of course,you will do well, you're so clever."

He had truly never seen so much spirit in the girl before.  Hertendency to discover a touch of sadness had for the noncedisappeared.  As she spoke her eyes were bright, her cheeks red.She radiated much of the pleasure which her undertakings gaveher.  For all her misgivings--and they were as plentiful as themoments of the day--she was still happy.  She could not repressher delight in doing this little thing which, to an ordinaryobserver, had no importance at all.

Hurstwood was charmed by the development of the fact that thegirl had capabilities.  There is nothing so inspiring in life asthe sight of a legitimate ambition, no matter how incipient.  Itgives colour, force, and beauty to the possessor.

Carrie was now lightened by a touch of this divine afflatus.  Shedrew to herself commendation from her two admirers which she hadnot earned.  Their affection for her naturally heightened theirperception of what she was trying to do and their approval ofwhat she did.  Her inexperience conserved her own exuberantfancy, which ran riot with every straw of opportunity, making ofit a golden divining rod whereby the treasure of life was to bediscovered.

"Let's see," said Hurstwood, "I ought to know some of the boys inthe lodge.  I'm an Elk myself."

"Oh, you mustn't let him know I told you."

"That's so," said the manager.

"I'd like for you to be there, if you want to come, but I don'tsee how you can unless he asks you."

"I'll be there," said Hurstwood affectionately.  "I can fix it sohe won't know you told me.  You leave it to me."

This interest of the manager was a large thing in itself for theperformance, for his standing among the Elks was something worthtalking about.  Already he was thinking of a box with somefriends, and flowers for Carrie.  He would make it a dress-suitaffair and give the little girl a chance.

Within a day or two, Drouet dropped into the Adams Street resort,and he was at once spied by Hurstwood.  It was at five in theafternoon and the place was crowded with merchants, actors,managers, politicians, a goodly company of rotund, rosy figures,silk-hatted, starchy-bosomed, beringed and bescarfpinned to thequeen's taste.  John L. Sullivan, the pugilist, was at one end ofthe glittering bar, surrounded by a company of loudly dressedsports, who were holding a most animated conversation.  Drouetcame across the floor with a festive stride, a new pair of tanshoes squeaking audibly at his progress.

"Well, sir," said Hurstwood, "I was wondering what had become ofyou.  I thought you had gone out of town again."

Drouet laughed.

"If you don't report more regularly we'll have to cut you off thelist."

"Couldn't help it," said the drummer, "I've been busy."

They strolled over toward the bar amid the noisy, shiftingcompany of notables.  The dressy manager was shaken by the handthree times in as many minutes.

"I hear your lodge is going to give a performance," observedHurstwood, in the most offhand manner.

"Yes, who told you?"

"No one," said Hurstwood.  "They just sent me a couple oftickets, which I can have for two dollars.  Is it going to be anygood?"

"I don't know," replied the drummer.  "They've been trying to getme to get some woman to take a part."

"I wasn't intending to go," said the manager easily.  "I'llsubscribe, of course.  How are things over there?"

"All right.  They're going to fit things up out of the proceeds."

"Well," said the manager, "I hope they make a success of it.Have another?"

He did not intend to say any more.  Now, if he should appear onthe scene with a few friends, he could say that he had been urgedto come along.  Drouet had a desire to wipe out the possibilityof confusion.

"I think the girl is going to take a part in it," he saidabruptly, after thinking it over.

"You don't say so! How did that happen?"

"Well, they were short and wanted me to find them some one.  Itold Carrie, and she seems to want to try."

"Good for her," said the manager.  "It'll be a real nice affair.Do her good, too.  Has she ever had any experience?"

"Not a bit."

"Oh, well, it isn't anything very serious."

"She's clever, though," said Drouet, casting off any imputationagainst Carrie's ability.  "She picks up her part quick enough."

"You don't say so!" said the manager.

"Yes, sir; she surprised me the other night.  By George, if shedidn't."

"We must give her a nice little send-off," said the manager."I'll look after the flowers."

Drouet smiled at his good-nature.

"After the show you must come with me and we'll have a littlesupper."

"I think she'll do all right," said Drouet.

"I want to see her.  She's got to do all right.  We'll make her,"and the manager gave one of his quick, steely half-smiles, whichwas a compound of good-nature and shrewdness.

Carrie, meanwhile, attended the first rehearsal.  At thisperformance Mr. Quincel presided, aided by Mr. Millice, a youngman who had some qualifications of past experience, which werenot exactly understood by any one.  He was so experienced and sobusiness-like, however, that he came very near being rude--failing to remember, as he did, that the individuals he wastrying to instruct were volunteer players and not salariedunderlings.

"Now, Miss Madenda," he said, addressing Carrie, who stood in onepart uncertain as to what move to make, "you don't want to standlike that.  Put expression in your face.  Remember, you aretroubled over the intrusion of the stranger.  Walk so," and hestruck out across the Avery stage in almost drooping manner.

Carrie did not exactly fancy the suggestion, but the novelty ofthe situation, the presence of strangers, all more or lessnervous, and the desire to do anything rather than make afailure, made her timid.  She walked in imitation of her mentoras requested, inwardly feeling that there was something strangelylacking.

"Now, Mrs. Morgan," said the director to one young married womanwho was to take the part of Pearl, "you sit here.  Now, Mr.Bamberger, you stand here, so.  Now, what is it you say?"

"Explain," said Mr. Bamberger feebly.  He had the part of Ray,Laura's lover, the society individual who was to waver in histhoughts of marrying her, upon finding that she was a waif and anobody by birth.

"How is that--what does your text say?"

"Explain," repeated Mr. Bamberger, looking intently at his part.

"Yes, but it also says," the director remarked, "that you are tolook shocked.  Now, say it again, and see if you can't lookshocked."

"Explain!" demanded Mr. Bamberger vigorously.

"No, no, that won't do! Say it this way--EXPLAIN."

"Explain," said Mr. Bamberger, giving a modified imitation.

"That's better.  Now go on."

"One night," resumed Mrs. Morgan, whose lines came next, "fatherand mother were going to the opera.  When they were crossingBroadway, the usual crowd of children accosted them for alms--"

"Hold on," said the director, rushing forward, his arm extended."Put more feeling into what you are saying."

Mrs. Morgan looked at him as if she feared a personal assault.Her eye lightened with resentment.

"Remember, Mrs. Morgan," he added, ignoring the gleam, butmodifying his manner, "that you're detailing a pathetic story.You are now supposed to be telling something that is a grief toyou.  It requires feeling, repression, thus: 'The usual crowd ofchildren accosted them for alms.'"

"All right," said Mrs. Morgan.

"Now, go on."

"As mother felt in her pocket for some change, her fingerstouched a cold and trembling hand which had clutched her purse."

"Very good," interrupted the director, nodding his headsignificantly.

"A pickpocket! Well!" exclaimed Mr. Bamberger, speaking the linesthat here fell to him.

"No, no, Mr. Bamberger," said the director, approaching, "notthat way.  'A pickpocket--well?' so.  That's the idea."

"Don't you think," said Carrie weakly, noticing that it had notbeen proved yet whether the members of the company knew theirlines, let alone the details of expression, "that it would bebetter if we just went through our lines once to see if we knowthem? We might pick up some points."

"A very good idea, Miss Madenda," said Mr. Quincel, who sat atthe side of the stage, looking serenely on and volunteeringopinions which the director did not heed.

"All right," said the latter, somewhat abashed, "it might be wellto do it." Then brightening, with a show of authority, "Supposewe run right through, putting in as much expression as we can."

"Good," said Mr. Quincel.

"This hand," resumed Mrs. Morgan, glancing up at Mr. Bambergerand down at her book, as the lines proceeded, "my mother graspedin her own, and so tight that a small, feeble voice uttered anexclamation of pain.  Mother looked down, and there beside herwas a little ragged girl."

"Very good," observed the director, now hopelessly idle.

"The thief!" exclaimed Mr. Bamberger.

"Louder," put in the director, finding it almost impossible tokeep his hands off.

"The thief!" roared poor Bamberger.

"Yes, but a thief hardly six years old, with a face like anangel's.  'Stop,' said my mother.  'What are you doing?'

"'Trying to steal,' said the child.

"'Don't you know that it is wicked to do so?' asked my father.

"'No,' said the girl, 'but it is dreadful to be hungry.'

"'Who told you to steal?' asked my mother.

"'She--there,' said the child, pointing to a squalid woman in adoorway opposite, who fled suddenly down the street.  'That isold Judas,' said the girl."

Mrs. Morgan read this rather flatly, and the director was indespair.  He fidgeted around, and then went over to Mr. Quincel.

"What do you think of them?" he asked.

"Oh, I guess we'll be able to whip them into shape," said thelatter, with an air of strength under difficulties.

"I don't know," said the director.  "That fellow Bambergerstrikes me as being a pretty poor shift for a lover."

"He's all we've got," said Quincel, rolling up his eyes."Harrison went back on me at the last minute.  Who else can weget?"

"I don't know," said the director.  "I'm afraid he'll never pickup."

At this moment Bamberger was exclaiming, "Pearl, you are jokingwith me.""Look at that now," said the director, whispering behind hishand.  "My Lord! what can you do with a man who drawls out asentence like that?"

"Do the best you can," said Quincel consolingly.

The rendition ran on in this wise until it came to where Carrie,as Laura, comes into the room to explain to Ray, who, afterhearing Pearl's statement about her birth, had written the letterrepudiating her, which, however, he did not deliver.  Bambergerwas just concluding the words of Ray, "I must go before shereturns.  Her step! Too late," and was cramming the letter in hispocket, when she began sweetly with:

"Ray!"

"Miss--Miss Courtland," Bamberger faltered weakly.

Carrie looked at him a moment and forgot all about the companypresent.  She began to feel the part, and summoned an indifferentsmile to her lips, turning as the lines directed and going to awindow, as if he were not present.  She did it with a grace whichwas fascinating to look upon.

"Who is that woman?" asked the director, watching Carrie in herlittle scene with Bamberger.

"Miss Madenda," said Quincel.

"I know her name," said the director, "but what does she do?"

"I don't know," said Quincel.  "She's a friend of one of ourmembers."

"Well, she's got more gumption than any one I've seen here sofar--seems to take an interest in what she's doing."

"Pretty, too, isn't she?" said Quincel.

The director strolled away without answering.

In the second scene, where she was supposed to face the companyin the ball-room, she did even better, winning the smile of thedirector, who volunteered, because of her fascination for him, tocome over and speak with her.

"Were you ever on the stage?" he asked insinuatingly.

"No," said Carrie.

"You do so well, I thought you might have had some experience."

Carrie only smiled consciously.

He walked away to listen to Bamberger, who was feebly spoutingsome ardent line.

Mrs. Morgan saw the drift of things and gleamed at Carrie withenvious and snapping black eyes.

"She's some cheap professional," she gave herself thesatisfaction of thinking, and scorned and hated her accordingly.

The rehearsal ended for one day, and Carrie went home feelingthat she had acquitted herself satisfactorily.  The words of thedirector were ringing in her ears, and she longed for anopportunity to tell Hurstwood.  She wanted him to know just howwell she was doing.  Drouet, too, was an object for herconfidences.  She could hardly wait until he should ask her, andyet she did not have the vanity to bring it up.  The drummer,however, had another line of thought to-night, and her littleexperience did not appeal to him as important.  He let theconversation drop, save for what she chose to recite withoutsolicitation, and Carrie was not good at that.  He took it forgranted that she was doing very well and he was relieved offurther worry.  Consequently he threw Carrie into repression,which was irritating.  She felt his indifference keenly andlonged to see Hurstwood.  It was as if he were now the onlyfriend she had on earth.  The next morning Drouet was interestedagain, but the damage had been done.

She got a pretty letter from the manager, saying that by the timeshe got it he would be waiting for her in the park.  When shecame, he shone upon her as the morning sun.

"Well, my dear," he asked, "how did you come out?"

"Well enough," she said, still somewhat reduced after Drouet.

"Now, tell me just what you did.  Was it pleasant?"

Carrie related the incidents of the rehearsal, warming up as sheproceeded.

"Well, that's delightful," said Hurstwood.  "I'm so glad.  I mustget over there to see you.  When is the next rehearsal?"

"Tuesday," said Carrie, "but they don't allow visitors."

"I imagine I could get in," said Hurstwood significantly.

She was completely restored and delighted by his consideration,but she made him promise not to come around.

"Now, you must do your best to please me," he said encouragingly."Just remember that I want you to succeed.  We will make theperformance worth while.  You do that now."

"I'll try," said Carrie, brimming with affection and enthusiasm.

"That's the girl," said Hurstwood fondly.  "Now, remember,"shaking an affectionate finger at her, "your best."

"I will," she answered, looking back.

The whole earth was brimming sunshine that morning.  She trippedalong, the clear sky pouring liquid blue into her soul.  Oh,blessed are the children of endeavour in this, that they try andare hopeful.  And blessed also are they who, knowing, smile andapprove.

Chapter XVIII

JUST OVER THE BORDER--A HAIL AND FAREWELL

By the evening of the 16th the subtle hand of Hurstwood had madeitself apparent.  He had given the word among his friends--andthey were many and influential--that here was something whichthey ought to attend, and, as a consequence, the sale of ticketsby Mr. Quincel, acting for the lodge, had been large.  Smallfour-line notes had appeared in all of the daily newspapers.These he had arranged for by the aid of one of his newspaperfriends on the "Times," Mr. Harry McGarren, the managing editor.

"Say, Harry," Hurstwood said to him one evening, as the latterstood at the bar drinking before wending his belated wayhomeward, "you can help the boys out, I guess."

"What is it?" said McGarren, pleased to be consulted by theopulent manager.

"The Custer Lodge is getting up a little entertainment for theirown good, and they'd like a little newspaper notice.  You knowwhat I mean--a squib or two saying that it's going to takeplace."

"Certainly," said McGarren, "I can fix that for you, George."

At the same time Hurstwood kept himself wholly in the background.The members of Custer Lodge could scarcely understand why theirlittle affair was taking so well.  Mr. Harry Quincel was lookedupon as quite a star for this sort of work.

By the time the 16th had arrived Hurstwood's friends had ralliedlike Romans to a senator's call.  A well-dressed, good-natured,flatteringly-inclined audience was assured from the moment hethought of assisting Carrie.

That little student had mastered her part to her ownsatisfaction, much as she trembled for her fate when she shouldonce face the gathered throng, behind the glare of thefootlights.  She tried to console herself with the thought that ascore of other persons, men and women, were equally tremulousconcerning the outcome of their efforts, but she could notdisassociate the general danger from her own individualliability.  She feared that she would forget her lines, that shemight be unable to master the feeling which she now feltconcerning her own movements in the play.  At times she wishedthat she had never gone into the affair; at others, she trembledlest she should be paralysed with fear and stand white andgasping, not knowing what to say and spoiling the entireperformance.

In the matter of the company, Mr. Bamberger had disappeared.That hopeless example had fallen under the lance of thedirector's criticism.  Mrs. Morgan was still present, but enviousand determined, if for nothing more than spite, to do as well asCarrie at least.  A loafing professional had been called in toassume the role of Ray, and, while he was a poor stick of hiskind, he was not troubled by any of those qualms which attack thespirit of those who have never faced an audience.  He swashedabout (cautioned though he was to maintain silence concerning hispast theatrical relationships) in such a self-confident mannerthat he was like to convince every one of his identity by merematter of circumstantial evidence.

"It is so easy," he said to Mrs. Morgan, in the usual affectedstage voice.  "An audience would be the last thing to trouble me.It's the spirit of the part, you know, that is difficult."

Carrie disliked his appearance, but she was too much the actressnot to swallow his qualities with complaisance, seeing that shemust suffer his fictitious love for the evening.

At six she was ready to go.  Theatrical paraphernalia had beenprovided over and above her care.  She had practised her make-upin the morning, had rehearsed and arranged her material for theevening by one o'clock, and had gone home to have a final look ather part, waiting for the evening to come.

On this occasion the lodge sent a carriage.  Drouet rode with heras far as the door, and then went about the neighbouring stores,looking for some good cigars.  The little actress marchednervously into her dressing-room and began that painfullyanticipated matter of make-up which was to transform her, asimple maiden, to Laura, The Belle of Society.

The flare of the gas-jets, the open trunks, suggestive of traveland display, the scattered contents of the make-up box--rouge,pearl powder, whiting, burnt cork, India ink, pencils for theeye-lids, wigs, scissors, looking-glasses, drapery--in short, allthe nameless paraphernalia of disguise, have a remarkableatmosphere of their own.  Since her arrival in the city manythings had influenced her, but always in a far-removed manner.This new atmosphere was more friendly.  It was wholly unlike thegreat brilliant mansions which waved her coldly away, permittingher only awe and distant wonder.  This took her by the handkindly, as one who says, "My dear, come in." It opened for her asif for its own.  She had wondered at the greatness of the namesupon the bill-boards, the marvel of the long notices in thepapers, the beauty of the dresses upon the stage, the atmosphereof carriages, flowers, refinement.  Here was no illusion.  Herewas an open door to see all of that.  She had come upon it as onewho stumbles upon a secret passage and, behold, she was in thechamber of diamonds and delight!

As she dressed with a flutter, in her little stage room, hearingthe voices outside, seeing Mr. Quincel hurrying here and there,noting Mrs. Morgan and Mrs. Hoagland at their nervous work ofpreparation, seeing all the twenty members of the cast movingabout and worrying over what the result would be, she could nothelp thinking what a delight this would be if it would endure;how perfect a state, if she could only do well now, and then sometime get a place as a real actress.  The thought had taken amighty hold upon her.  It hummed in her ears as the melody of anold song.

Outside in the little lobby another scene was begin enacted.Without the interest of Hurstwood, the little hall would probablyhave been comfortably filled, for the members of the lodge weremoderately interested in its welfare.  Hurstwood's word, however,had gone the rounds.  It was to be a full-dress affair.  The fourboxes had been taken.  Dr. Norman McNeill Hale and his wife wereto occupy one.  This was quite a card.  C. R. Walker, dry-goodsmerchant and possessor of at least two hundred thousand dollars,had taken another; a well-known coal merchant had been induced totake the third, and Hurstwood and his friends the fourth.  Amongthe latter was Drouet.  The people who were now pouring here werenot celebrities, nor even local notabilities, in a general sense.They were the lights of a certain circle--the circle of smallfortunes and secret order distinctions.  These gentlemen Elksknew the standing of one another.  They had regard for theability which could amass a small fortune, own a nice home, keepa barouche or carriage, perhaps, wear fine clothes, and maintaina good mercantile position.  Naturally, Hurstwood, who was alittle above the order of mind which accepted this standard asperfect, who had shrewdness and much assumption of dignity, whoheld an imposing and authoritative position, and commandedfriendship by intuitive tact in handling people, was quite afigure.  He was more generally known than most others in the samecircle, and was looked upon as some one whose reserve covered amine of influence and solid financial prosperity.

To-night he was in his element.  He came with several friendsdirectly from Rector's in a carriage.  In the lobby he metDrouet, who was just returning from a trip for more cigars.  Allfive now joined in an animated conversation concerning thecompany present and the general drift of lodge affairs.

"Who's here?" said Hurstwood, passing into the theatre proper,where the lights were turned up and a company of gentlemen werelaughing and talking in the open space back of the seats.

"Why, how do you do, Mr. Hurstwood?" came from the firstindividual recognised.

"Glad to see you," said the latter, grasping his hand lightly.

"Looks quite an affair, doesn't it?"

"Yes, indeed," said the manager.

"Custer seems to have the backing of its members," observed thefriend.

"So it should," said the knowing manager.  "I'm glad to see it."

"Well, George," said another rotund citizen, whose avoirdupoismade necessary an almost alarming display of starched shirtbosom, "how goes it with you?"

"Excellent," said the manager.

"What brings you over here? You're not a member of Custer."

"Good-nature," returned the manager.  "Like to see the boys, youknow."

"Wife here?"

"She couldn't come to-night.  She's not well."

"Sorry to hear it--nothing serious, I hope."

"No, just feeling a little ill."

"I remember Mrs.  Hurstwood when she was travelling once with youover to St. Joe--" and here the newcomer launched off in atrivial recollection, which was terminated by the arrival of morefriends.

"Why, George, how are you?" said another genial West Sidepolitician and lodge member.  "My, but I'm glad to see you again;how are things, anyhow?"

"Very well; I see you got that nomination for alderman."

"Yes, we whipped them out over there without much trouble."

"What do you suppose Hennessy will do now?"

"Oh, he'll go back to his brick business.  He has a brick-yard,you know."

"I didn't know that," said the manager.  "Felt pretty sore, Isuppose, over his defeat.""Perhaps," said the other, winking shrewdly.

Some of the more favoured of his friends whom he had invitedbegan to roll up in carriages now.  They came shuffling in with agreat show of finery and much evident feeling of content andimportance.

"Here we are," said Hurstwood, turning to one from a group withwhom he was talking.

"That's right," returned the newcomer, a gentleman of aboutforty-five.

"And say," he whispered, jovially, pulling Hurstwood over by theshoulder so that he might whisper in his ear, "if this isn't agood show, I'll punch your head."

"You ought to pay for seeing your old friends.  Bother the show!"

To another who inquired, "Is it something really good?" themanager replied:

"I don't know.  I don't suppose so." Then, lifting his handgraciously, "For the lodge."

"Lots of boys out, eh?"

"Yes, look up Shanahan.  He was just asking for you a momentago."

It was thus that the little theatre resounded to a babble ofsuccessful voices, the creak of fine clothes, the commonplace ofgood-nature, and all largely because of this man's bidding.  Lookat him any time within the half hour before the curtain was up,he was a member of an eminent group--a rounded company of five ormore whose stout figures, large white bosoms, and shining pinsbespoke the character of their success.  The gentlemen whobrought their wives called him out to shake hands.  Seatsclicked, ushers bowed while he looked blandly on.  He wasevidently a light among them, reflecting in his personality theambitions of those who greeted him.  He was acknowledged, fawnedupon, in a way lionised.  Through it all one could see thestanding of the man.  It was greatness in a way, small as it was.

Chapter XIX

AN HOUR IN ELFLAND--A CLAMOUR HALF HEARD

At last the curtain was ready to go up.  All the details of themake-up had been completed, and the company settled down as theleader of the small, hired orchestra tapped significantly uponhis music rack with his baton and began the soft curtain-raisingstrain.  Hurstwood ceased talking, and went with Drouet and hisfriend Sagar Morrison around to the box.

"Now, we'll see how the little girl does," he said to Drouet, ina tone which no one else could hear.

On the stage, six of the characters had already appeared in theopening parlour scene.  Drouet and Hurstwood saw at a glance thatCarrie was not among them, and went on talking in a whisper.Mrs. Morgan, Mrs. Hoagland, and the actor who had takenBamberger's part were representing the principal roles in thisscene.  The professional, whose name was Patton, had little torecommend him outside of his assurance, but this at the presentmoment was most palpably needed.  Mrs. Morgan, as Pearl, wasstiff with fright.  Mrs. Hoagland was husky in the throat.  Thewhole company was so weak-kneed that the lines were merelyspoken, and nothing more.  It took all the hope and uncriticalgood-nature of the audience to keep from manifesting pity by thatunrest which is the agony of failure.

Hurstwood was perfectly indifferent.  He took it for granted thatit would be worthless.  All he cared for was to have it endurableenough to allow for pretension and congratulation afterward.

After the first rush of fright, however, the players got over thedanger of collapse.  They rambled weakly forward, losing nearlyall the expression which was intended, and making the thing dullin the extreme, when Carrie came in.

One glance at her, and both Hurstwood and Drouet saw plainly thatshe also was weak-kneed.  She came faintly across the stage,saying:

"And you, sir; we have been looking for you since eight o'clock,"but with so little colour and in such a feeble voice that it waspositively painful.

"She's frightened," whispered Drouet to Hurstwood.

The manager made no answer.

She had a line presently which was supposed to be funny.

"Well, that's as much as to say that I'm a sort of life pill."

It came out so flat, however, that it was a deathly thing.Drouet fidgeted.  Hurstwood moved his toe the least bit.

There was another place in which Laura was to rise and, with asense of impending disaster, say, sadly:

"I wish you hadn't said that, Pearl.  You know the old proverb,'Call a maid by a married name.'"

The lack of feeling in the thing was ridiculous.  Carrie did notget it at all.  She seemed to be talking in her sleep.  It lookedas if she were certain to be a wretched failure.  She was morehopeless than Mrs. Morgan, who had recovered somewhat, and wasnow saying her lines clearly at least.  Drouet looked away fromthe stage at the audience.  The latter held out silently, hopingfor a general change, of course.  Hurstwood fixed his eye onCarrie, as if to hypnotise her into doing better.  He was pouringdetermination of his own in her direction.  He felt sorry forher.

In a few more minutes it fell to her to read the letter sent inby the strange villain.  The audience had been slightly divertedby a conversation between the professional actor and a charactercalled Snorky, impersonated by a short little American, whoreally developed some humour as a half-crazed, one-armed soldier,turned messenger for a living.  He bawled his lines out with suchdefiance that, while they really did not partake of the humourintended, they were funny.  Now he was off, however, and it wasback to pathos, with Carrie as the chief figure.  She did notrecover.  She wandered through the whole scene between herselfand the intruding villain, straining the patience of theaudience, and finally exiting, much to their relief.

"She's too nervous," said Drouet, feeling in the mildness of theremark that he was lying for once.

"Better go back and say a word to her."

Drouet was glad to do anything for relief.  He fairly hustledaround to the side entrance, and was let in by the friendly door-keeper.  Carrie was standing in the wings, weakly waiting hernext cue, all the snap and nerve gone out of her.

"Say, Cad," he said, looking at her, "you mustn't be nervous.Wake up.  Those guys out there don't amount to anything.  Whatare you afraid of?"

"I don't know," said Carrie.  "I just don't seem to be able to doit."

She was grateful for the drummer's presence, though.  She hadfound the company so nervous that her own strength had gone.

"Come on," said Drouet.  "Brace up.  What are you afraid of? Goon out there now, and do the trick.  What do you care?"

Carrie revived a little under the drummer's electrical, nervouscondition.

"Did I do so very bad?"

"Not a bit.  All you need is a little more ginger.  Do it as youshowed me.  Get that toss of your head you had the other night."

Carrie remembered her triumph in the room.  She tried to thinkshe could to it.

What's next?" he said, looking at her part, which she had beenstudying.

"Why, the scene between Ray and me when I refuse him."

"Well, now you do that lively," said the drummer.  "Put in snap,that's the thing.  Act as if you didn't care."

"Your turn next, Miss Madenda," said the prompter.

"Oh, dear," said Carrie.

"Well, you're a chump for being afraid," said Drouet.  "Come onnow, brace up.  I'll watch you from right here."

"Will you?" said Carrie.

"Yes, now go on.  Don't be afraid."

The prompter signalled her.

She started out, weak as ever, but suddenly her nerve partiallyreturned.  She thought of Drouet looking.

"Ray," she said, gently, using a tone of voice much more calmthan when she had last appeared.  It was the scene which hadpleased the director at the rehearsal.

"She's easier," thought Hurstwood to himself.

She did not do the part as she had at rehearsal, but she wasbetter.  The audience was at least not irritated.  Theimprovement of the work of the entire company took away directobservation from her.  They were making very fair progress, andnow it looked as if the play would be passable, in the lesstrying parts at least.

Carrie came off warm and nervous.

"Well," she said, looking at him, "was it any better?"

"Well, I should say so.  That's the way.  Put life into it.  Youdid that about a thousand per cent.  better than you did theother scene.  Now go on and fire up.  You can do it.  Knock 'em."

"Was it really better?"

"Better, I should say so.  What comes next?"

"That ballroom scene."

"Well, you can do that all right," he said.

"I don't know," answered Carrie.

"Why, woman," he exclaimed, "you did it for me! Now you go outthere and do it.  It'll be fun for you.  Just do as you did inthe room.  If you'll reel it off that way, I'll bet you make ahit.  Now, what'll you bet? You do it."

The drummer usually allowed his ardent good-nature to get thebetter of his speech.  He really did think that Carrie had actedthis particular scene very well, and he wanted her to repeat itin public.  His enthusiasm was due to the mere spirit of theoccasion.

When the time came, he buoyed Carrie up most effectually.  Hebegan to make her feel as if she had done very well.  The oldmelancholy of desire began to come back as he talked at her, andby the time the situation rolled around she was running high infeeling.

"I think I can do this."

"Sure you can.  Now you go ahead and see."

On the stage, Mrs. Van Dam was making her cruel insinuationagainst Laura.

Carrie listened, and caught the infection of something--she didnot know what.  Her nostrils sniffed thinly.

"It means," the professional actor began, speaking as Ray, "thatsociety is a terrible avenger of insult.  Have you ever heard ofthe Siberian wolves? When one of the pack falls through weakness,the others devour him.  It is not an elegant comparison, butthere is something wolfish in society.  Laura has mocked it witha pretence, and society, which is made up of pretence, willbitterly resent the mockery."

At the sound of her stage name Carrie started.  She began to feelthe bitterness of the situation.  The feelings of the outcastdescended upon her.  She hung at the wing's edge, wrapt in herown mounting thoughts.  She hardly heard anything more, save herown rumbling blood.

"Come, girls," said Mrs. Van Dam, solemnly, "let us look afterour things.  They are no longer safe when such an accomplishedthief enters."

"Cue," said the prompter, close to her side, but she did nothear.  Already she was moving forward with a steady grace, bornof inspiration.  She dawned upon the audience, handsome andproud, shifting, with the necessity of the situation, to a cold,white, helpless object, as the social pack moved away from herscornfully.

Hurstwood blinked his eyes and caught the infection.  Theradiating waves of feeling and sincerity were already breakingagainst the farthest walls of the chamber.  The magic of passion,which will yet dissolve the world, was here at work.

There was a drawing, too, of attention, a riveting of feeling,heretofore wandering.

"Ray! Ray! Why do you not come back to her?" was the cry ofPearl.

Every eye was fixed on Carrie, still proud and scornful.  Theymoved as she moved.  Their eyes were with her eyes.

Mrs. Morgan, as Pearl, approached her.

"Let us go home," she said.

"No," answered Carrie, her voice assuming for the first time apenetrating quality which it had never known.  "Stay with him!"

She pointed an almost accusing hand toward her lover.  Then, witha pathos which struck home because of its utter simplicity, "Heshall not suffer long."

Hurstwood realised that he was seeing something extraordinarilygood.  It was heightened for him by the applause of the audienceas the curtain descended and the fact that it was Carrie.  Hethought now that she was beautiful.  She had done something whichwas above his sphere.  He felt a keen delight in realising thatshe was his.

"Fine," he said, and then, seized by a sudden impulse, arose andwent about to the stage door.

When he came in upon Carrie she was still with Drouet.  Hisfeelings for her were most exuberant.  He was almost swept awayby the strength and feeling she exhibited.  His desire was topour forth his praise with the unbounded feelings of a lover, buthere was Drouet, whose affection was also rapidly reviving.  Thelatter was more fascinated, if anything, than Hurstwood.  Atleast, in the nature of things, it took a more ruddy form.

"Well, well," said Drouet, "you did out of sight.  That wassimply great.  I knew you could do it.  Oh, but you're a littledaisy!"

Carrie's eyes flamed with the light of achievement.

"Did I do all right?"

"Did you? Well, I guess.  Didn't you hear the applause?"

There was some faint sound of clapping yet.

"I thought I got it something like--I felt it."

Just then Hurstwood came in.  Instinctively he felt the change inDrouet.  He saw that the drummer was near to Carrie, and jealousyleaped alight in his bosom.  In a flash of thought, he reproachedhimself for having sent him back.  Also, he hated him as anintruder.  He could scarcely pull himself down to the level wherehe would have to congratulate Carrie as a friend.  Nevertheless,the man mastered himself, and it was a triumph.  He almost jerkedthe old subtle light to his eyes.

"I thought," he said, looking at Carrie, "I would come around andtell you how well you did, Mrs. Drouet.  It was delightful."

Carrie took the cue, and replied:

"Oh, thank you."

"I was just telling her," put in Drouet, now delighted with hispossession, "that I thought she did fine."

"Indeed you did," said Hurstwood, turning upon Carrie eyes inwhich she read more than the words.

Carrie laughed luxuriantly.

"If you do as well in the rest of the play, you will make us allthink you are a born actress."

Carrie smiled again.  She felt the acuteness of Hurstwood'sposition, and wished deeply that she could be alone with him, butshe did not understand the change in Drouet.  Hurstwood foundthat he could not talk, repressed as he was, and grudging Drouetevery moment of his presence, he bowed himself out with theelegance of a Faust.  Outside he set his teeth with envy.

"Damn it!" he said, "is he always going to be in the way?" He wasmoody when he got back to the box, and could not talk forthinking of his wretched situation.

As the curtain for the next act arose, Drouet came back.  He wasvery much enlivened in temper and inclined to whisper, butHurstwood pretended interest.  He fixed his eyes on the stage,although Carrie was not there, a short bit of melodramatic comedypreceding her entrance.  He did not see what was going on,however.  He was thinking his own thoughts, and they werewretched.

The progress of the play did not improve matters for him.Carrie, from now on, was easily the centre of interest.  Theaudience, which had been inclined to feel that nothing could begood after the first gloomy impression, now went to the otherextreme and saw power where it was not.  The general feelingreacted on Carrie.  She presented her part with some felicity,though nothing like the intensity which had aroused the feelingat the end of the long first act.

Both Hurstwood and Drouet viewed her pretty figure with risingfeelings.  The fact that such ability should reveal itself inher, that they should see it set forth under such effectivecircumstances, framed almost in massy gold and shone upon by theappropriate lights of sentiment and personality, heightened hercharm for them.  She was more than the old Carrie to Drouet.  Helonged to be at home with her until he could tell her.  Heawaited impatiently the end, when they should go home alone.

Hurstwood, on the contrary, saw in the strength of her newattractiveness his miserable predicament.  He could have cursedthe man beside him.  By the Lord, he could not even applaudfeelingly as he would.  For once he must simulate when it left ataste in his mouth.

It was in the last act that Carrie's fascination for her loversassumed its most effective character.

Hurstwood listened to its progress, wondering when Carrie wouldcome on.  He had not long to wait.  The author had used theartifice of sending all the merry company for a drive, and nowCarrie came in alone.  It was the first time that Hurstwood hadhad a chance to see her facing the audience quite alone, fornowhere else had she been without a foil of some sort.  Hesuddenly felt, as she entered, that her old strength--the powerthat had grasped him at the end of the first act--had come back.She seemed to be gaining feeling, now that the play was drawingto a close and the opportunity for great action was passing.

"Poor Pearl," she said, speaking with natural pathos.  "It is asad thing to want for happiness, but it is a terrible thing tosee another groping about blindly for it, when it is almostwithin the grasp."

She was gazing now sadly out upon the open sea, her arm restinglistlessly upon the polished door-post.

Hurstwood began to feel a deep sympathy for her and for himself.He could almost feel that she was talking to him.  He was, by acombination of feelings and entanglements, almost deluded by thatquality of voice and manner which, like a pathetic strain ofmusic, seems ever a personal and intimate thing.  Pathos has thisquality, that it seems ever addressed to one alone.

"And yet, she can be very happy with him," went on the littleactress.  "Her sunny temper, her joyous face will brighten anyhome."

She turned slowly toward the audience without seeing.  There wasso much simplicity in her movements that she seemed wholly alone.Then she found a seat by a table, and turned over some books,devoting a thought to them.

"With no longings for what I may not have," she breathed inconclusion--and it was almost a sigh--"my existence hidden fromall save two in the wide world, and making my joy out of the joyof that innocent girl who will soon be his wife."

Hurstwood was sorry when a character, known as Peach Blossom,interrupted her.  He stirred irritably, for he wished her to goon.  He was charmed by the pale face, the lissome figure, drapedin pearl grey, with a coiled string of pearls at the throat.Carrie had the air of one who was weary and in need ofprotection, and, under the fascinating make-believe of themoment, he rose in feeling until he was ready in spirit to go toher and ease her out of her misery by adding to his own delight.

In a moment Carrie was alone again, and was saying, withanimation:

"I must return to the city, no matter what dangers may lurk here.I must go, secretly if I can; openly, if I must."

There was a sound of horses' hoofs outside, and then Ray's voicesaying:"No, I shall not ride again.  Put him up."

He entered, and then began a scene which had as much to do withthe creation of the tragedy of affection in Hurstwood as anythingin his peculiar and involved career.  For Carrie had resolved tomake something of this scene, and, now that the cue had come, itbegan to take a feeling hold upon her.  Both Hurstwood and Drouetnoted the rising sentiment as she proceeded.

"I thought you had gone with Pearl," she said to her lover.

"I did go part of the way, but I left the Party a mile down theroad."

"You and Pearl had no disagreement?"

"No--yes; that is, we always have.  Our social barometers alwaysstand at 'cloudy' and 'overcast.'"

"And whose fault is that?" she said, easily.

"Not mine," he answered, pettishly.  "I know I do all I can--Isay all I can--but she----"

This was rather awkwardly put by Patton, but Carrie redeemed itwith a grace which was inspiring.

"But she is your wife," she said, fixing her whole attention uponthe stilled actor, and softening the quality of her voice untilit was again low and musical.  "Ray, my friend, courtship is thetext from which the whole sermon of married life takes its theme.Do not let yours be discontented and unhappy."

She put her two little hands together and pressed themappealingly.

Hurstwood gazed with slightly parted lips.  Drouet was fidgetingwith satisfaction.

"To be my wife, yes," went on the actor in a manner which wasweak by comparison, but which could not now spoil the tenderatmosphere which Carrie had created and maintained.  She did notseem to feel that he was wretched.  She would have done nearly aswell with a block of wood.  The accessories she needed werewithin her own imagination.  The acting of others could notaffect them.

"And you repent already?" she said, slowly.

"I lost you," he said, seizing her little hand, "and I was at themercy of any flirt who chose to give me an inviting look.  It wasyour fault--you know it was--why did you leave me?"

Carrie turned slowly away, and seemed to be mastering someimpulse in silence.  Then she turned back.

"Ray," she said, "the greatest happiness I have ever felt hasbeen the thought that all your affection was forever bestowedupon a virtuous woman, your equal in family, fortune, andaccomplishments.  What a revelation do you make to me now! Whatis it makes you continually war with your happiness?"

The last question was asked so simply that it came to theaudience and the lover as a personal thing.

At last it came to the part where the lover exclaimed, "Be to meas you used to be."

Carrie answered, with affecting sweetness, "I cannot be that toyou, but I can speak in the spirit of the Laura who is dead toyou forever."

"Be it as you will," said Patton.

Hurstwood leaned forward.  The whole audience was silent andintent.

"Let the woman you look upon be wise or vain," said Carrie, hereyes bent sadly upon the lover, who had sunk into a seat,"beautiful or homely, rich or poor, she has but one thing she canreally give or refuse--her heart."

Drouet felt a scratch in his throat.

"Her beauty, her wit, her accomplishments, she may sell to you;but her love is the treasure without money and without price."

The manager suffered this as a personal appeal.  It came to himas if they were alone, and he could hardly restrain the tears forsorrow over the hopeless, pathetic, and yet dainty and appealingwoman whom he loved.  Drouet also was beside himself.  He wasresolving that he would be to Carrie what he had never beenbefore.  He would marry her, by George! She was worth it.

"She asks only in return," said Carrie, scarcely hearing thesmall, scheduled reply of her lover, and putting herself evenmore in harmony with the plaintive melody now issuing from theorchestra, "that when you look upon her your eyes shall speakdevotion; that when you address her your voice shall be gentle,loving, and kind; that you shall not despise her because shecannot understand all at once your vigorous thoughts andambitious designs; for, when misfortune and evil have defeatedyour greatest purposes, her love remains to console you.  Youlook to the trees," she continued, while Hurstwood restrained hisfeelings only by the grimmest repression, "for strength andgrandeur; do not despise the flowers because their fragrance isall they have to give.  Remember," she concluded, tenderly, "loveis all a woman has to give," and she laid a strange, sweet accenton the all, "but it is the only thing which God permits us tocarry beyond the grave."

The two men were in the most harrowed state of affection.  Theyscarcely heard the few remaining words with which the sceneconcluded.  They only saw their idol, moving about with appealinggrace, continuing a power which to them was a revelation.

Hurstwood resolved a thousands things, Drouet as well.  Theyjoined equally in the burst of applause which called Carrie out.Drouet pounded his hands until they ached.  Then he jumped upagain and started out.  As he went, Carrie came out, and, seeingan immense basket of flowers being hurried down the aisle towardher she waited.  They were Hurstwood's.  She looked toward themanager's box for a moment, caught his eye, and smiled.  He couldhave leaped out of the box to enfold her.  He forgot the need ofcircumspectness which his married state enforced.  He almostforgot that he had with him in the box those who knew him.  Bythe Lord, he would have that lovely girl if it took his all.  Hewould act at once.  This should be the end of Drouet, and don'tyou forget it.  He would not wait another day.  The drummershould not have her.

He was so excited that he could not stay in the box.  He wentinto the lobby, and then into the street, thinking.  Drouet didnot return.  In a few minutes the last act was over, and he wascrazy to have Carrie alone.  He cursed the luck that could keephim smiling, bowing, shamming, when he wanted to tell her that heloved her, when he wanted to whisper to her alone.  He groaned ashe saw that his hopes were futile.  He must even take her tosupper, shamming.  He finally went about and asked how she wasgetting along.  The actors were all dressing, talking, hurryingabout.  Drouet was palavering himself with the looseness ofexcitement and passion.  The manager mastered himself only by agreat effort.

"We are going to supper, of course," he said, with a voice thatwas a mockery of his heart.

"Oh, yes," said Carrie, smiling.

The little actress was in fine feather.  She was realising nowwhat it was to be petted.  For once she was the admired, thesought-for.  The independence of success now made its first faintshowing.  With the tables turned, she was looking down, ratherthan up, to her lover.  She did not fully realise that this wasso, but there was something in condescension coming from herwhich was infinitely sweet.  When she was ready they climbed intothe waiting coach and drove down town; once, only, did she findan opportunity to express her feeling, and that was when themanager preceded Drouet in the coach and sat beside her.  BeforeDrouet was fully in she had squeezed Hurstwood's hand in agentle, impulsive manner.  The manager was beside himself withaffection.  He could have sold his soul to be with her alone."Ah," he thought, "the agony of it."

Drouet hung on, thinking he was all in all.  The dinner wasspoiled by his enthusiasm.  Hurstwood went home feeling as if heshould die if he did not find affectionate relief.  He whispered"to-morrow" passionately to Carrie, and she understood.  Hewalked away from the drummer and his prize at parting feeling asif he could slay him and not regret.  Carrie also felt the miseryof it.

"Good-night," he said, simulating an easy friendliness.

"Good-night," said the little actress, tenderly.

"The fool!" he said, now hating Drouet.  "The idiot! I'll do himyet, and that quick! We'll see to-morrow."

"Well, if you aren't a wonder," Drouet was saying, complacently,squeezing Carrie's arm.  "You are the dandiest little girl onearth."

Chapter XX

THE LURE OF THE SPIRIT--THE FLESH IN PURSUIT

Passion in a man of Hurstwood's nature takes a vigorous form.  Itis no musing, dreamy thing.  There is none of the tendency tosing outside of my lady's window--to languish and repine in theface of difficulties.  In the night he was long getting to sleepbecause of too much thinking, and in the morning he was earlyawake, seizing with alacrity upon the same dear subject andpursuing it with vigour.  He was out of sorts physically, as wellas disordered mentally, for did he not delight in a new manner inhis Carrie, and was not Drouet in the way? Never was man moreharassed than he by the thoughts of his love being held by theelated, flush-mannered drummer.  He would have given anything, itseemed to him, to have the complication ended--to have Carrieacquiesce to an arrangement which would dispose of Droueteffectually and forever.

What to do.  He dressed thinking.  He moved about in the samechamber with his wife, unmindful of her presence.

At breakfast he found himself without an appetite.  The meat towhich he helped himself remained on his plate untouched.  Hiscoffee grew cold, while he scanned the paper indifferently.  Hereand there he read a little thing, but remembered nothing.Jessica had not yet come down.  His wife sat at one end of thetable revolving thoughts of her own in silence.  A new servanthad been recently installed and had forgot the napkins.  On thisaccount the silence was irritably broken by a reproof.

"I've told you about this before, Maggie," said Mrs. Hurstwood."I'm not going to tell you again."

Hurstwood took a glance at his wife.  She was frowning.  Just nowher manner irritated him excessively.  Her next remark wasaddressed to him.

"Have you made up your mind, George, when you will take yourvacation?"

It was customary for them to discuss the regular summer outing atthis season of the year.

"Not yet," he said, "I'm very busy just now."

"Well, you'll want to make up your mind pretty soon, won't you,if we're going?" she returned.

"I guess we have a few days yet," he said.

"Hmff," she returned.  "Don't wait until the season's over."

She stirred in aggravation as she said this.

"There you go again," he observed.  "One would think I never didanything, the way you begin."

"Well, I want to know about it," she reiterated.

"You've got a few days yet," he insisted.  "You'll not want tostart before the races are over."

He was irritated to think that this should come up when he wishedto have his thoughts for other purposes.

"Well, we may.  Jessica doesn't want to stay until the end of theraces."

"What did you want with a season ticket, then?"

"Uh!" she said, using the sound as an exclamation of disgust,"I'll not argue with you," and therewith arose to leave thetable.

"Say," he said, rising, putting a note of determination in hisvoice which caused her to delay her departure, "what's the matterwith you of late? Can't I talk with you any more?"

"Certainly, you can TALK with me," she replied, laying emphasison the word.

"Well, you wouldn't think so by the way you act.  Now, you wantto know when I'll be ready--not for a month yet.  Maybe notthen."

"We'll go without you."

"You will, eh?" he sneered.

"Yes, we will."

He was astonished at the woman's determination, but it onlyirritated him the more.

"Well, we'll see about that.  It seems to me you're trying to runthings with a pretty high hand of late.  You talk as though yousettled my affairs for me.  Well, you don't.  You don't regulateanything that's connected with me.  If you want to go, go, butyou won't hurry me by any such talk as that."

He was thoroughly aroused now.  His dark eyes snapped, and hecrunched his paper as he laid it down.  Mrs. Hurstwood saidnothing more.  He was just finishing when she turned on her heeland went out into the hall and upstairs.  He paused for a moment,as if hesitating, then sat down and drank a little coffee, andthereafter arose and went for his hat and gloves upon the mainfloor.

His wife had really not anticipated a row of this character.  Shehad come down to the breakfast table feeling a little out ofsorts with herself and revolving a scheme which she had in hermind.  Jessica had called her attention to the fact that theraces were not what they were supposed to be.  The socialopportunities were not what they had thought they would be thisyear.  The beautiful girl found going every day a dull thing.There was an earlier exodus this year of people who were anybodyto the watering places and Europe.  In her own circle ofacquaintances several young men in whom she was interested hadgone to Waukesha.  She began to feel that she would like to gotoo, and her mother agreed with her.

Accordingly, Mrs. Hurstwood decided to broach the subject.  Shewas thinking this over when she came down to the table, but forsome reason the atmosphere was wrong.  She was not sure, after itwas all over, just how the trouble had begun.  She was determinednow, however, that her husband was a brute, and that, under nocircumstances, would she let this go by unsettled.  She wouldhave more lady-like treatment or she would know why.

For his part, the manager was loaded with the care of this newargument until he reached his office and started from there tomeet Carrie.  Then the other complications of love, desire, andopposition possessed him.  His thoughts fled on before him uponeagles' wings.  He could hardly wait until he should meet Carrieface to face.  What was the night, after all, without her--whatthe day? She must and should be his.

For her part, Carrie had experienced a world of fancy and feelingsince she had left him, the night before.  She had listened toDrouet's enthusiastic maunderings with much regard for that partwhich concerned herself, with very little for that which affectedhis own gain.  She kept him at such lengths as she could, becauseher thoughts were with her own triumph.  She felt Hurstwood'spassion as a delightful background to her own achievement, andshe wondered what he would have to say.  She was sorry for him,too, with that peculiar sorrow which finds somethingcomplimentary to itself in the misery of another.  She was nowexperiencing the first shades of feeling of that subtle changewhich removes one out of the ranks of the suppliants into thelines of the dispensers of charity.  She was, all in all,exceedingly happy.

On the morrow, however, there was nothing in the papersconcerning the event, and, in view of the flow of common,everyday things about, it now lost a shade of the glow of theprevious evening.  Drouet himself was not talking so much OF asFOR her.  He felt instinctively that, for some reason or other,he needed reconstruction in her regard.

"I think," he said, as he spruced around their chambers the nextmorning, preparatory to going down town, "that I'll straightenout that little deal of mine this month and then we'll getmarried.  I was talking with Mosher about that yesterday."

"No, you won't," said Carrie, who was coming to feel a certainfaint power to jest with the drummer.

"Yes, I will," he exclaimed, more feelingly than usual, adding,with the tone of one who pleads, "Don't you believe what I'vetold you?"

Carrie laughed a little.

"Of course I do," she answered.

Drouet's assurance now misgave him.  Shallow as was his mentalobservation, there was that in the things which had happenedwhich made his little power of analysis useless.  Carrie wasstill with him, but not helpless and pleading.  There was a liltin her voice which was new.  She did not study him with eyesexpressive of dependence.  The drummer was feeling the shadow ofsomething which was coming.  It coloured his feelings and madehim develop those little attentions and say those little wordswhich were mere forefendations against danger.

Shortly afterward he departed, and Carrie prepared for hermeeting with Hurstwood.  She hurried at her toilet, which wassoon made, and hastened down the stairs.  At the corner shepassed Drouet, but they did not see each other.

The drummer had forgotten some bills which he wished to turn intohis house.  He hastened up the stairs and burst into the room,but found only the chambermaid, who was cleaning up.

"Hello," he exclaimed, half to himself, "has Carrie gone?"

"Your wife? Yes, she went out just a few minutes ago."

"That's strange," thought Drouet.  "She didn't say a word to me.I wonder where she went?"

He hastened about, rummaging in his valise for what he wanted,and finally pocketing it.  Then he turned his attention to hisfair neighbour, who was good-looking and kindly disposed towardshim.

"What are you up to?" he said, smiling.

"Just cleaning," she replied, stopping and winding a dustingtowel about her hand.

"Tired of it?"

"Not so very."

"Let me show you something," he said, affably, coming over andtaking out of his pocket a little lithographed card which hadbeen issued by a wholesale tobacco company.  On this was printeda picture of a pretty girl, holding a striped parasol, thecolours of which could be changed by means of a revolving disk inthe back, which showed red, yellow, green, and blue throughlittle interstices made in the ground occupied by the umbrellatop.

"Isn't that clever?" he said, handing it to her and showing herhow it worked.  "You never saw anything like that before."

"Isn't it nice?" she answered.

"You can have it if you want it," he remarked.

"That's a pretty ring you have," he said, touching a commonplacesetting which adorned the hand holding the card he had given her.

"Do you think so?"

"That's right," he answered, making use of a pretence atexamination to secure her finger.  "That's fine."

The ice being thus broken, he launched into further observationpretending to forget that her fingers were still retained by his.She soon withdrew them, however, and retreated a few feet to restagainst the window-sill.

"I didn't see you for a long time," she said, coquettishly,repulsing one of his exuberant approaches.  "You must have beenaway."

"I was," said Drouet.

"Do you travel far?"

"Pretty far--yes."

"Do you like it?"

"Oh, not very well.  You get tired of it after a while."

"I wish I could travel," said the girl, gazing idly out of thewindow.

"What has become of your friend, Mr. Hurstwood?" she suddenlyasked, bethinking herself of the manager, who, from her ownobservation, seemed to contain promising material.

"He's here in town.  What makes you ask about him?"

"Oh, nothing, only he hasn't been here since you got back."

"How did you come to know him?"

"Didn't I take up his name a dozen times in the last month?"

"Get out," said the drummer, lightly.  "He hasn't called morethan half a dozen times since we've been here."

"He hasn't, eh?" said the girl, smiling.  "That's all you knowabout it."

Drouet took on a slightly more serious tone.  He was uncertain asto whether she was joking or not.

"Tease," he said, "what makes you smile that way?"

"Oh, nothing."

"Have you seen him recently?"

"Not since you came back," she laughed.

"Before?"

"Certainly."

"How often?"

"Why, nearly every day."

She was a mischievous newsmonger, and was keenly wondering whatthe effect of her words would be.

"Who did he come to see?" asked the drummer, incredulously.

"Mrs. Drouet."

He looked rather foolish at this answer, and then attempted tocorrect himself so as not to appear a dupe.

"Well," he said, "what of it?"

"Nothing," replied the girl, her head cocked coquettishly on oneside.

"He's an old friend," he went on, getting deeper into the mire.

He would have gone on further with his little flirtation, but thetaste for it was temporarily removed.  He was quite relieved whenthe girl's named was called from below.

"I've got to go," she said, moving away from him airily.

"I'll see you later," he said, with a pretence of disturbance atbeing interrupted.

When she was gone, he gave freer play to his feelings.  His face,never easily controlled by him, expressed all the perplexity anddisturbance which he felt.  Could it be that Carrie had receivedso many visits and yet said nothing about them? Was Hurstwoodlying? What did the chambermaid mean by it, anyway? He hadthought there was something odd about Carrie's manner at thetime.  Why did she look so disturbed when he had asked her howmany times Hurstwood had called? By George! He remembered now.There was something strange about the whole thing.

He sat down in a rocking-chair to think the better, drawing upone leg on his knee and frowning mightily.  His mind ran on at agreat rate.

And yet Carrie hadn't acted out of the ordinary.  It couldn't be,by George, that she was deceiving him.  She hadn't acted thatway.  Why, even last night she had been as friendly toward him ascould be, and Hurstwood too.  Look how they acted! He couldhardly believe they would try to deceive him.

His thoughts burst into words.

"She did act sort of funny at times.  Here she had dressed, andgone out this morning and never said a word."

He scratched his head and prepared to go down town.  He was stillfrowning.  As he came into the hall he encountered the girl, whowas now looking after another chamber.  She had on a whitedusting cap, beneath which her chubby face shone good-naturedly.Drouet almost forgot his worry in the fact that she was smilingon him.  He put his hand familiarly on her shoulder, as if onlyto greet her in passing.

"Got over being mad?" she said, still mischievously inclined.

"I'm not mad," he answered.

"I thought you were," she said, smiling.

"Quit your fooling about that," he said, in an offhand way."Were you serious?"

"Certainly," she answered.  Then, with an air of one who did notintentionally mean to create trouble, "He came lots of times.  Ithought you knew."

The game of deception was up with Drouet.  He did not try tosimulate indifference further.

"Did he spend the evenings here?" he asked.

"Sometimes.  Sometimes they went out."

"In the evening?"

"Yes.  You mustn't look so mad, though."

"I'm not," he said.  "Did any one else see him?"

"Of course," said the girl, as if, after all, it were nothing inparticular.

"How long ago was this?"

"Just before you came back."

The drummer pinched his lip nervously.

"Don't say anything, will you?" he asked, giving the girl's arm agentle squeeze.

"Certainly not," she returned.  "I wouldn't worry over it."

"All right," he said, passing on, seriously brooding for once,and yet not wholly unconscious of the fact that he was making amost excellent impression upon the chambermaid.

"I'll see her about that," he said to himself, passionately,feeling that he had been unduly wronged.  "I'll find out,b'George, whether she'll act that way or not."

Chapter XXI

THE LURE OF THE SPIRIT--THE FLESH IN PURSUIT

When Carrie came Hurstwood had been waiting many minutes.  Hisblood was warm; his nerves wrought up.  He was anxious to see thewoman who had stirred him so profoundly the night before.

"Here you are," he said, repressedly, feeling a spring in hislimbs and an elation which was tragic in itself.

"Yes," said Carrie.

They walked on as if bound for some objective point, whileHurstwood drank in the radiance of her presence.  The rustle ofher pretty skirt was like music to him.

"Are you satisfied?" he asked, thinking of how well she did thenight before.

"Are you?"

He tightened his fingers as he saw the smile she gave him.

"It was wonderful."

Carrie laughed ecstatically.

"That was one of the best things I've seen in a long time," headded.

He was dwelling on her attractiveness as he had felt it theevening before, and mingling it with the feeling her presenceinspired now.

Carrie was dwelling in the atmosphere which this man created forher.  Already she was enlivened and suffused with a glow.  Shefelt his drawing toward her in every sound of his voice.

"Those were such nice flowers you sent me," she said, after amoment or two.  "They were beautiful."

"Glad you liked them," he answered, simply.

He was thinking all the time that the subject of his desire wasbeing delayed.  He was anxious to turn the talk to his ownfeelings.  All was ripe for it.  His Carrie was beside him.  Hewanted to plunge in and expostulate with her, and yet he foundhimself fishing for words and feeling for a way.

"You got home all right," he said, gloomily, of a sudden, histune modifying itself to one of self-commiseration.

"Yes," said Carrie, easily.

He looked at her steadily for a moment, slowing his pace andfixing her with his eye.

She felt the flood of feeling.

"How about me?" he asked.

This confused Carrie considerably, for she realised the flood-gates were open.  She didn't know exactly what to answer."I don't know," she answered.

He took his lower lip between his teeth for a moment, and thenlet it go.  He stopped by the walk side and kicked the grass withhis toe.  He searched her face with a tender, appealing glance.

"Won't you come away from him?" he asked, intensely.

"I don't know," returned Carrie, still illogically drifting andfinding nothing at which to catch.

As a matter of fact, she was in a most hopeless quandary.  Herewas a man whom she thoroughly liked, who exercised an influenceover her, sufficient almost to delude her into the belief thatshe was possessed of a lively passion for him.  She was still thevictim of his keen eyes, his suave manners, his fine clothes.She looked and saw before her a man who was most gracious andsympathetic, who leaned toward her with a feeling that was adelight to observe.  She could not resist the glow of histemperament, the light of his eye.  She could hardly keep fromfeeling what he felt.

And yet she was not without thoughts which were disturbing.  Whatdid he know? What had Drouet told him? Was she a wife in hiseyes, or what? Would he marry her? Even while he talked, and shesoftened, and her eyes were lighted with a tender glow, she wasasking herself if Drouet had told him they were not married.There was never anything at all convincing about what Drouetsaid.

And yet she was not grieved at Hurstwood's love.  No strain ofbitterness was in it for her, whatever he knew.  He was evidentlysincere.  His passion was real and warm.  There was power in whathe said.  What should she do? She went on thinking this,answering vaguely, languishing affectionately, and altogetherdrifting, until she was on a borderless sea of speculation.

"Why don't you come away?" he said, tenderly.  "I will arrangefor you whatever--"

"Oh, don't," said Carrie.

"Don't what?" he asked.  "What do you mean?"

There was a look of confusion and pain in her face.  She waswondering why that miserable thought must be brought in.  She wasstruck as by a blade with the miserable provision which wasoutside the pale of marriage.

He himself realized that it was a wretched thing to have draggedin.  He wanted to weigh the effects of it, and yet he could notsee.  He went beating on, flushed by her presence, clearlyawakened, intensely enlisted in his plan.

"Won't you come?" he said, beginning over and with a morereverent feeling.  "You know I can't do without you--you know it--it can't go on this way--can it?"

"I know," said Carrie.

"I wouldn't ask if I--I wouldn't argue with you if I could helpit.  Look at me, Carrie.  Put yourself in my place.  You don'twant to stay away from me, do you?"

She shook her head as if in deep thought."Then why not settle the whole thing, once and for all?"

"I don't know," said Carrie.

"Don't know! Ah, Carrie, what makes you say that? Don't tormentme.  Be serious."

"I am," said Carrie, softly.

"You can't be, dearest, and say that.  Not when you know how Ilove you.  Look at last night."

His manner as he said this was the most quiet imaginable.  Hisface and body retained utter composure.  Only his eyes moved, andthey flashed a subtle, dissolving fire.  In them the wholeintensity of the man's nature was distilling itself.

Carrie made no answer.

"How can you act this way, dearest?" he inquired, after a time."You love me, don't you?"

He turned on her such a storm of feeling that she wasoverwhelmed.  For the moment all doubts were cleared away.

"Yes," she answered, frankly and tenderly.

"Well, then you'll come, won't you--come to-night?"

Carrie shook her head in spite of her distress.

"I can't wait any longer," urged Hurstwood.  "If that is toosoon, come Saturday."

"When will we be married?" she asked, diffidently, forgetting inher difficult situation that she had hoped he took her to beDrouet's wife.

The manager started, hit as he was by a problem which was moredifficult than hers.  He gave no sign of the thoughts thatflashed like messages to his mind.

"Any time you say," he said, with ease, refusing to discolour hispresent delight with this miserable problem.

"Saturday?" asked Carrie.

He nodded his head.

"Well, if you will marry me then," she said, "I'll go."

The manager looked at his lovely prize, so beautiful, so winsome,so difficult to be won, and made strange resolutions.  Hispassion had gotten to that stage now where it was no longercoloured with reason.  He did not trouble over little barriers ofthis sort in the face of so much loveliness.  He would accept thesituation with all its difficulties; he would not try to answerthe objections which cold truth thrust upon him.  He wouldpromise anything, everything, and trust to fortune to disentanglehim.  He would make a try for Paradise, whatever might be theresult.  He would be happy, by the Lord, if it cost all honestyof statement, all abandonment of truth.

Carrie looked at him tenderly.  She could have laid her head uponhis shoulder, so delightful did it all seem."Well," she said, "I'll try and get ready then."

Hurstwood looked into her pretty face, crossed with littleshadows of wonder and misgiving, and thought he had never seenanything more lovely.

"I'll see you again to-morrow," he said, joyously, "and we'lltalk over the plans."

He walked on with her, elated beyond words, so delightful hadbeen the result.  He impressed a long story of joy and affectionupon her, though there was but here and there a word.  After ahalf-hour he began to realise that the meeting must come to anend, so exacting is the world.

"To-morrow," he said at parting, a gayety of manner addingwonderfully to his brave demeanour.

"Yes," said Carrie, tripping elatedly away.

There had been so much enthusiasm engendered that she wasbelieving herself deeply in love.  She sighed as she thought ofher handsome adorer.  Yes, she would get ready by Saturday.  Shewould go, and they would be happy.

Chapter XXII

THE BLAZE OF THE TINDER--FLESH WARS WITH THE FLESH

The misfortune of the Hurstwood household was due to the factthat jealousy, having been born of love, did not perish with it.Mrs. Hurstwood retained this in such form that subsequentinfluences could transform it into hate.  Hurstwood was stillworthy, in a physical sense, of the affection his wife had oncebestowed upon him, but in a social sense he fell short.  With hisregard died his power to be attentive to her, and this, to awoman, is much greater than outright crime toward another.  Ourself-love dictates our appreciation of the good or evil inanother.  In Mrs. Hurstwood it discoloured the very hue of herhusband's indifferent nature.  She saw design in deeds andphrases which sprung only from a faded appreciation of herpresence.

As a consequence, she was resentful and suspicious.  The jealousythat prompted her to observe every falling away from the littleamenities of the married relation on his part served to give hernotice of the airy grace with which he still took the world.  Shecould see from the scrupulous care which he exercised in thematter of his personal appearance that his interest in life hadabated not a jot.  Every motion, every glance had something in itof the pleasure he felt in Carrie, of the zest this new pursuitof pleasure lent to his days.  Mrs. Hurstwood felt something,sniffing change, as animals do danger, afar off.

This feeling was strengthened by actions of a direct and morepotent nature on the part of Hurstwood.  We have seen with whatirritation he shirked those little duties which no longercontained any amusement of satisfaction for him, and the opensnarls with which, more recently, he resented her irritatinggoads.  These little rows were really precipitated by anatmosphere which was surcharged with dissension.  That it wouldshower, with a sky so full of blackening thunderclouds, wouldscarcely be thought worthy of comment.  Thus, after leaving thebreakfast table this morning, raging inwardly at his blankdeclaration of indifference at her plans, Mrs. Hurstwoodencountered Jessica in her dressing-room, very leisurelyarranging her hair.  Hurstwood had already left the house.

"I wish you wouldn't be so late coming down to breakfast," shesaid, addressing Jessica, while making for her crochet basket."Now here the things are quite cold, and you haven't eaten."

Her natural composure was sadly ruffled, and Jessica was doomedto feel the fag end of the storm.

"I'm not hungry," she answered.

"Then why don't you say so, and let the girl put away the things,instead of keeping her waiting all morning?"

"She doesn't mind," answered Jessica, coolly.

"Well, I do, if she doesn't," returned the mother, "and, anyhow,I don't like you to talk that way to me.  You're too young to puton such an air with your mother."

"Oh, mamma, don't row,"; answered Jessica.  "What's the matterthis morning, anyway?"

"Nothing's the matter, and I'm not rowing.  You mustn't thinkbecause I indulge you in some things that you can keep everybodywaiting.  I won't have it."

"I'm not keeping anybody waiting," returned Jessica, sharply,stirred out of a cynical indifference to a sharp defence.  "Isaid I wasn't hungry.  I don't want any breakfast."

"Mind how you address me, missy.  I'll not have it.  Hear me now;I'll not have it!"

Jessica heard this last while walking out of the room, with atoss of her head and a flick of her pretty skirts indicative ofthe independence and indifference she felt.  She did not proposeto be quarrelled with.

Such little arguments were all too frequent, the result of agrowth of natures which were largely independent and selfish.George, Jr., manifested even greater touchiness and exaggerationin the matter of his individual rights, and attempted to make allfeel that he was a man with a man's privileges--an assumptionwhich, of all things, is most groundless and pointless in a youthof nineteen.

Hurstwood was a man of authority and some fine feeling, and itirritated him excessively to find himself surrounded more andmore by a world upon which he had no hold, and of which he had alessening understanding.

Now, when such little things, such as the proposed earlier startto Waukesha, came up, they made clear to him his position.  Hewas being made to follow, was not leading.  When, in addition, asharp temper was manifested, and to the process of shoulderinghim out of his authority was added a rousing intellectual kick,such as a sneer or a cynical laugh, he was unable to keep histemper.  He flew into hardly repressed passion, and wishedhimself clear of the whole household.  It seemed a mostirritating drag upon all his desires and opportunities.

For all this, he still retained the semblance of leadership andcontrol, even though his wife was straining to revolt.  Herdisplay of temper and open assertion of opposition were basedupon nothing more than the feeling that she could do it.  She hadno special evidence wherewith to justify herself--the knowledgeof something which would give her both authority and excuse.  Thelatter was all that was lacking, however, to give a solidfoundation to what, in a way, seemed groundless discontent.  Theclear proof of one overt deed was the cold breath needed toconvert the lowering clouds of suspicion into a rain of wrath.

An inkling of untoward deeds on the part of Hurstwood had come.Doctor Beale, the handsome resident physician of theneighbourhood, met Mrs. Hurstwood at her own doorstep some daysafter Hurstwood and Carrie had taken the drive west on WashingtonBoulevard.  Dr. Beale, coming east on the same drive, hadrecognised Hurstwood, but not before he was quite past him.  Hewas not so sure of Carrie--did not know whether it wasHurstwood's wife or daughter.

"You don't speak to your friends when you meet them out driving,do you?" he said, jocosely, to Mrs. Hurstwood.

"If I see them, I do.  Where was I?"

"On Washington Boulevard." he answered, expecting her eye tolight with immediate remembrance.

She shook her head.

"Yes, out near Hoyne Avenue.  You were with your husband."

"I guess you're mistaken," she answered.  Then, remembering herhusband's part in the affair, she immediately fell a prey to ahost of young suspicions, of which, however, she gave no sign.

"I know I saw your husband," he went on.  "I wasn't so sure aboutyou.  Perhaps it was your daughter."

"Perhaps it was," said Mrs. Hurstwood, knowing full well thatsuch was not the case, as Jessica had been her companion forweeks.  She had recovered herself sufficiently to wish to knowmore of the details.

"Was it in the afternoon?" she asked, artfully, assuming an airof acquaintanceship with the matter.

"Yes, about two or three."

"It must have been Jessica," said Mrs. Hurstwood, not wishing toseem to attach any importance to the incident.

The physician had a thought or two of his own, but dismissed thematter as worthy of no further discussion on his part at least.

Mrs. Hurstwood gave this bit of information considerable thoughtduring the next few hours, and even days.  She took it forgranted that the doctor had really seen her husband, and that hehad been riding, most likely, with some other woman, afterannouncing himself as BUSY to her.  As a consequence, sherecalled, with rising feeling, how often he had refused to go toplaces with her, to share in little visits, or, indeed, take partin any of the social amenities which furnished the diversion ofher existence.  He had been seen at the theatre with people whomhe called Moy's friends; now he was seen driving, and, mostlikely, would have an excuse for that.  Perhaps there were othersof whom she did not hear, or why should he be so busy, soindifferent, of late? In the last six weeks he had becomestrangely irritable--strangely satisfied to pick up and go out,whether things were right or wrong in the house.  Why?

She recalled, with more subtle emotions, that he did not look ather now with any of the old light of satisfaction or approval inhis eye.  Evidently, along with other things, he was taking herto be getting old and uninteresting.  He saw her wrinkles,perhaps.  She was fading, while he was still preening himself inhis elegance and youth.  He was still an interested factor in themerry-makings of the world, while she--but she did not pursue thethought.  She only found the whole situation bitter, and hatedhim for it thoroughly.

Nothing came of this incident at the time, for the truth is itdid not seem conclusive enough to warrant any discussion.  Onlythe atmosphere of distrust and ill-feeling was strengthened,precipitating every now and then little sprinklings of irritableconversation, enlivened by flashes of wrath.  The matter of theWaukesha outing was merely a continuation of other things of thesame nature.

The day after Carrie's appearance on the Avery stage, Mrs.Hurstwood visited the races with Jessica and a youth of heracquaintance, Mr. Bart Taylor, the son of the owner of a localhouse-furnishing establishment.  They had driven out early, and,as it chanced, encountered several friends of Hurstwood, allElks, and two of whom had attended the performance the eveningbefore.  A thousand chances the subject of the performance hadnever been brought up had Jessica not been so engaged by theattentions of her young companion, who usurped as much time aspossible.  This left Mrs. Hurstwood in the mood to extend theperfunctory greetings of some who knew her into shortconversations, and the short conversations of friends into longones.  It was from one who meant but to greet her perfunctorilythat this interesting intelligence came.

"I see," said this individual, who wore sporting clothes of themost attractive pattern, and had a field-glass strung over hisshoulder, "that you did not get over to our little entertainmentlast evening."

"No?" said Mrs. Hurstwood, inquiringly, and wondering why heshould be using the tone he did in noting the fact that she hadnot been to something she knew nothing about.  It was on her lipsto say, "What was it?" when he added, "I saw your husband."

Her wonder was at once replaced by the more subtle quality ofsuspicion.

"Yes," she said, cautiously, "was it pleasant? He did not tell memuch about it."

"Very.  Really one of the best private theatricals I everattended.  There was one actress who surprised us all."

"Indeed," said Mrs. Hurstwood.

"It's too bad you couldn't have been there, really.  I was sorryto hear you weren't feeling well."

Feeling well! Mrs. Hurstwood could have echoed the words afterhim open-mouthed.  As it was, she extricated herself from hermingled impulse to deny and question, and said, almost raspingly:

"Yes, it is too bad."

"Looks like there will be quite a crowd here to-day, doesn't it?"the acquaintance observed, drifting off upon another topic.

The manager's wife would have questioned farther, but she saw noopportunity.  She was for the moment wholly at sea, anxious tothink for herself, and wondering what new deception was thiswhich caused him to give out that she was ill when she was not.Another case of her company not wanted, and excuses being made.She resolved to find out more.

"Were you at the performance last evening?" she asked of the nextof Hurstwood's friends who greeted her as she sat in her box.

"Yes.  You didn't get around."

"No," she answered, "I was not feeling very well."

"So your husband told me," he answered.  "Well, it was reallyvery enjoyable.  Turned out much better than I expected."

"Were there many there?"

"The house was full.  It was quite an Elk night.  I saw quite anumber of your friends--Mrs. Harrison, Mrs. Barnes, Mrs.Collins."

"Quite a social gathering."

"Indeed it was.  My wife enjoyed it very much."

Mrs. Hurstwood bit her lip.

"So," she thought, "that's the way he does.  Tells my friends Iam sick and cannot come."

She wondered what could induce him to go alone.  There wassomething back of this.  She rummaged her brain for a reason.

By evening, when Hurstwood reached home, she had brooded herselfinto a state of sullen desire for explanation and revenge.  Shewanted to know what this peculiar action of his imported.  Shewas certain there was more behind it all than what she had heard,and evil curiosity mingled well with distrust and the remnants ofher wrath of the morning.  She, impending disaster itself, walkedabout with gathered shadow at the eyes and the rudimentarymuscles of savagery fixing the hard lines of her mouth.

On the other hand, as we may well believe, the manager came homein the sunniest mood.  His conversation and agreement with Carriehad raised his spirits until he was in the frame of mind of onewho sings joyously.  He was proud of himself, proud of hissuccess, proud of Carrie.  He could have been genial to all theworld, and he bore no grudge against his wife.  He meant to bepleasant, to forget her presence, to live in the atmosphere ofyouth and pleasure which had been restored to him.

So now, the house, to his mind, had a most pleasing andcomfortable appearance.  In the hall he found an evening paper,laid there by the maid and forgotten by Mrs. Hurstwood.  In thedining-room the table was clean laid with linen and napery andshiny with glasses and decorated china.  Through an open door hesaw into the kitchen, where the fire was crackling in the stoveand the evening meal already well under way.  Out in the smallback yard was George, Jr., frolicking with a young dog he hadrecently purchased, and in the parlour Jessica was playing at thepiano, the sounds of a merry waltz filling every nook and cornerof the comfortable home.  Every one, like himself, seemed to haveregained his good spirits, to be in sympathy with youth andbeauty, to be inclined to joy and merry-making.  He felt as if hecould say a good word all around himself, and took a most genialglance at the spread table and polished sideboard before goingupstairs to read his paper in the comfortable armchair of thesitting-room which looked through the open windows into thestreet.  When he entered there, however, he found his wifebrushing her hair and musing to herself the while.

He came lightly in, thinking to smooth over any feeling thatmight still exist by a kindly word and a ready promise, but Mrs.Hurstwood said nothing.  He seated himself in the large chair,stirred lightly in making himself comfortable, opened his paper,and began to read.  In a few moments he was smiling merrily overa very comical account of a baseball game which had taken placebetween the Chicago and Detroit teams.

The while he was doing this Mrs. Hurstwood was observing himcasually through the medium of the mirror which was before her.She noticed his pleasant and contented manner, his airy grace andsmiling humour, and it merely aggravated her the more.  Shewondered how he could think to carry himself so in her presenceafter the cynicism, indifference, and neglect he had heretoforemanifested and would continue to manifest so long as she wouldendure it.  She thought how she should like to tell him--whatstress and emphasis she would lend her assertions, how she shoulddrive over this whole affair until satisfaction should berendered her.  Indeed, the shining sword of her wrath was butweakly suspended by a thread of thought.

In the meanwhile Hurstwood encountered a humorous item concerninga stranger who had arrived in the city and became entangled witha bunco-steerer.  It amused him immensely, and at last he stirredand chuckled to himself.  He wished that he might enlist hiswife's attention and read it to her.

"Ha, ha," he exclaimed softly, as if to himself, "that's funny."

Mrs. Hurstwood kept on arranging her hair, not so much asdeigning a glance.

He stirred again and went on to another subject.  At last he feltas if his good-humour must find some outlet.  Julia was probablystill out of humour over that affair of this morning, but thatcould easily be straightened.  As a matter of fact, she was inthe wrong, but he didn't care.  She could go to Waukesha rightaway if she wanted to.  The sooner the better.  He would tell herthat as soon as he got a chance, and the whole thing would blowover.

"Did you notice," he said, at last, breaking forth concerninganother item which he had found, "that they have entered suit tocompel the Illinois Central to get off the lake front, Julia?" heasked.

She could scarcely force herself to answer, but managed to say"No," sharply.

Hurstwood pricked up his ears.  There was a note in her voicewhich vibrated keenly.

"It would be a good thing if they did," he went on, half tohimself, half to her, though he felt that something was amiss inthat quarter.  He withdrew his attention to his paper verycircumspectly, listening mentally for the little sounds whichshould show him what was on foot.

As a matter of fact, no man as clever as Hurstwood--as observantand sensitive to atmospheres of many sorts, particularly upon hisown plane of thought--would have made the mistake which he did inregard to his wife, wrought up as she was, had he not beenoccupied mentally with a very different train of thought.  Hadnot the influence of Carrie's regard for him, the elation whichher promise aroused in him, lasted over, he would not have seenthe house in so pleasant a mood.  It was not extraordinarilybright and merry this evening.  He was merely very much mistaken,and would have been much more fitted to cope with it had he comehome in his normal state.

After he had studied his paper a few moments longer, he felt thathe ought to modify matters in some way or other.  Evidently hiswife was not going to patch up peace at a word.  So he said:

"Where did George get the dog he has there in the yard?"

"I don't know," she snapped.

He put his paper down on his knees and gazed idly out of thewindow.  He did not propose to lose his temper, but merely to bepersistent and agreeable, and by a few questions bring around amild understanding of some sort.

"Why do you feel so bad about that affair of this morning? hesaid, at last. "We needn't quarrel about that.  You know you cango to Waukesha if you want to."

"So you can stay here and trifle around with some one else?" sheexclaimed, turning to him a determined countenance upon which wasdrawn a sharp and wrathful sneer.

He stopped as if slapped in the face.  In an instant hispersuasive, conciliatory manner fled.  He was on the defensive ata wink and puzzled for a word to reply.

"What do you mean?" he said at last, straightening himself andgazing at the cold, determined figure before him, who paid noattention, but went on arranging herself before the mirror.

"You know what I mean," she said, finally, as if there were aworld of information which she held in reserve--which she did notneed to tell.

"Well, I don't," he said, stubbornly, yet nervous and alert forwhat should come next.  The finality of the woman's manner tookaway his feeling of superiority in battle.

She made no answer.

"Hmph!" he murmured, with a movement of his head to one side.  Itwas the weakest thing he had ever done.  It was totallyunassured.

Mrs. Hurstwood noticed the lack of colour in it.  She turned uponhim, animal-like, able to strike an effectual second blow.

"I want the Waukesha money to-morrow morning," she said.

He looked at her in amazement.  Never before had he seen such acold, steely determination in her eye--such a cruel look ofindifference.  She seemed a thorough master of her mood--thoroughly confident and determined to wrest all control fromhim.  He felt that all his resources could not defend him.  Hemust attack.

"What do you mean?" he said, jumping up.  "You want! I'd like toknow what's got into you to-night."

"Nothing's GOT into me," she said, flaming.  "I want that money.You can do your swaggering afterwards."

"Swaggering, eh! What! You'll get nothing from me.  What do youmean by your insinuations, anyhow?"

"Where were you last night?" she answered.  The words were hot asthey came.  "Who were you driving with on Washington Boulevard?Who were you with at the theatre when George saw you? Do youthink I'm a fool to be duped by you? Do you think I'll sit athome here and take your 'too busys' and 'can't come,' while youparade around and make out that I'm unable to come? I want you toknow that lordly airs have come to an end so far as I amconcerned.  You can't dictate to me nor my children.  I'm throughwith you entirely."

"It's a lie," he said, driven to a corner and knowing no otherexcuse.

"Lie, eh!" she said, fiercely, but with returning reserve; "youmay call it a lie if you want to, but I know."

"It's a lie, I tell you," he said, in a low, sharp voice."You've been searching around for some cheap accusation formonths and now you think you have it.  You think you'll springsomething and get the upper hand.  Well, I tell you, you can't.As long as I'm in this house I'm master of it, and you or any oneelse won't dictate to me--do you hear?"

He crept toward her with a light in his eye that was ominous.Something in the woman's cool, cynical, upper-handish manner, asif she were already master, caused him to feel for the moment asif he could strangle her.

She gazed at him--a pythoness in humour.

"I'm not dictating to you," she returned; "I'm telling you what Iwant."

The answer was so cool, so rich in bravado, that somehow it tookthe wind out of his sails.  He could not attack her, he could notask her for proofs.  Somehow he felt evidence, law, theremembrance of all his property which she held in her name, to beshining in her glance.  He was like a vessel, powerful anddangerous, but rolling and floundering without sail.

"And I'm telling you," he said in the end, slightly recoveringhimself, "what you'll not get."

"We'll see about it," she said.  "I'll find out what my rightsare.  Perhaps you'll talk to a lawyer, if you won't to me."

It was a magnificent play, and had its effect.  Hurstwood fellback beaten.  He knew now that he had more than mere bluff tocontend with.  He felt that he was face to face with a dullproposition.  What to say he hardly knew.  All the merriment hadgone out of the day.  He was disturbed, wretched, resentful.What should he do?"Do as you please," he said, at last.  "I'll have nothing more todo with you," and out he strode.

Chapter XXIII

A SPIRIT IN TRAVAIL--ONE RUNG PUT BEHIND

When Carrie reached her own room she had already fallen a prey tothose doubts and misgivings which are ever the result of a lackof decision.  She could not persuade herself as to theadvisability of her promise, or that now, having given her word,she ought to keep it.  She went over the whole ground inHurstwood's absence, and discovered little objections that hadnot occurred to her in the warmth of the manager's argument.  Shesaw where she had put herself in a peculiar light, namely, thatof agreeing to marry when she was already supposedly married.She remembered a few things Drouet had done, and now that it cameto walking away from him without a word, she felt as if she weredoing wrong.  Now, she was comfortably situated, and to one whois more or less afraid of the world, this is an urgent matter,and one which puts up strange, uncanny arguments.  "You do notknow what will come.  There are miserable things outside.  Peoplego a-begging.  Women are wretched.  You never can tell what willhappen.  Remember the time you were hungry.  Stick to what youhave."

Curiously, for all her leaning towards Hurstwood, he had nottaken a firm hold on her understanding.  She was listening,smiling, approving, and yet not finally agreeing.  This was dueto a lack of power on his part, a lack of that majesty of passionthat sweeps the mind from its seat, fuses and melts all argumentsand theories into a tangled mass, and destroys for the time beingthe reasoning power.  This majesty of passion is possessed bynearly every man once in his life, but it is usually an attributeof youth and conduces to the first successful mating.

Hurstwood, being an older man, could scarcely be said to retainthe fire of youth, though he did possess a passion warm andunreasoning.  It was strong enough to induce the leaning towardhim which, on Carrie's part, we have seen.  She might have beensaid to be imagining herself in love, when she was not.  Womenfrequently do this.  It flows from the fact that in each exists abias toward affection, a craving for the pleasure of being loved.The longing to be shielded, bettered, sympathised with, is one ofthe attributes of the sex.  This, coupled with sentiment and anatural tendency to emotion, often makes refusing difficult.  Itpersuades them that they are in love.

Once at home, she changed her clothes and straightened the roomsfor herself.  In the matter of the arrangement of the furnitureshe never took the housemaid's opinion.  That young womaninvariably put one of the rocking-chairs in the corner, andCarrie as regularly moved it out.  To-day she hardly noticed thatit was in the wrong place, so absorbed was she in her ownthoughts.  She worked about the room until Drouet put inappearance at five o'clock.  The drummer was flushed and excitedand full of determination to know all about her relations withHurstwood.  Nevertheless, after going over the subject in hismind the livelong day, he was rather weary of it and wished itover with.  He did not foresee serious consequences of any sort,and yet he rather hesitated to begin.  Carrie was sitting by thewindow when he came in, rocking and looking out."Well," she said innocently, weary of her own mental discussionand wondering at his haste and ill-concealed excitement, "whatmakes you hurry so?"

Drouet hesitated, now that he was in her presence, uncertain asto what course to pursue.  He was no diplomat.  He could neitherread nor see.

"When did you get home?" he asked foolishly.

"Oh, an hour or so ago.  What makes you ask that?"

"You weren't here," he said, "when I came back this morning, andI thought you had gone out."

"So I did," said Carrie simply.  "I went for a walk."

Drouet looked at her wonderingly.  For all his lack of dignity insuch matters he did not know how to begin.  He stared at her inthe most flagrant manner until at last she said:

"What makes you stare at me so? What's the matter?"

"Nothing," he answered.  "I was just thinking."

"Just thinking what?" she returned smilingly, puzzled by hisattitude.

"Oh, nothing--nothing much."

"Well, then, what makes you look so?"

Drouet was standing by the dresser, gazing at her in a comicmanner.  He had laid off his hat and gloves and was now fidgetingwith the little toilet pieces which were nearest him.  Hehesitated to believe that the pretty woman before him wasinvolved in anything so unsatisfactory to himself.  He was verymuch inclined to feel that it was all right, after all.  Yet theknowledge imparted to him by the chambermaid was rankling in hismind.  He wanted to plunge in with a straight remark of somesort, but he knew not what.

"Where did you go this morning?" he finally asked weakly.

"Why, I went for a walk," said Carrie.

"Sure you did?" he asked.

"Yes, what makes you ask?"

She was beginning to see now that he knew something.  Instantlyshe drew herself into a more reserved position.  Her cheeksblanched slightly.

"I thought maybe you didn't," he said, beating about the bush inthe most useless manner.

Carrie gazed at him, and as she did so her ebbing courage halted.She saw that he himself was hesitating, and with a woman'sintuition realised that there was no occasion for great alarm.

"What makes you talk like that?" she asked, wrinkling her prettyforehead.  "You act so funny to-night."

"I feel funny," he answered.They looked at one another for a moment, and then Drouet plungeddesperately into his subject.

"What's this about you and Hurstwood?" he asked.

"Me and Hurstwood--what do you mean?"

"Didn't he come here a dozen times while I was away?"

"A dozen times," repeated Carrie, guiltily.  "No, but what do youmean?"

"Somebody said that you went out riding with him and that he camehere every night."

"No such thing," answered Carrie.  "It isn't true.  Who told youthat?"

She was flushing scarlet to the roots of her hair, but Drouet didnot catch the full hue of her face, owing to the modified lightof the room.  He was regaining much confidence as Carrie defendedherself with denials.

"Well, some one," he said.  "You're sure you didn't?"

"Certainly," said Carrie.  "You know how often he came."

Drouet paused for a moment and thought.

"I know what you told me," he said finally.

He moved nervously about, while Carrie looked at him confusedly.

"Well, I know that I didn't tell you any such thing as that,"said Carrie, recovering herself.

"If I were you," went on Drouet, ignoring her last remark, "Iwouldn't have anything to do with him.  He's a married man, youknow."

"Who--who is?" said Carrie, stumbling at the word.

"Why, Hurstwood," said Drouet, noting the effect and feeling thathe was delivering a telling blow.

"Hurstwood!" exclaimed Carrie, rising.  Her face had changedseveral shades since this announcement was made.  She lookedwithin and without herself in a half-dazed way.

"Who told you this?" she asked, forgetting that her interest wasout of order and exceedingly incriminating.

"Why, I know it.  I've always known it," said Drouet.

Carrie was feeling about for a right thought.  She was making amost miserable showing, and yet feelings were generating withinher which were anything but crumbling cowardice.

"I thought I told you," he added.

"No, you didn't," she contradicted, suddenly recovering hervoice.  "You didn't do anything of the kind."

Drouet listened to her in astonishment.  This was something new.

"I thought I did," he said.

Carrie looked around her very solemnly, and then went over to thewindow.

"You oughtn't to have had anything to do with him," said Drouetin an injured tone, "after all I've done for you."

"You," said Carrie, "you! What have you done for me?"

Her little brain had been surging with contradictory feelings--shame at exposure, shame at Hurstwood's perfidy, anger atDrouet's deception, the mockery he had made at her.  Now oneclear idea came into her head.  He was at fault.  There was nodoubt about it.  Why did he bring Hurstwood out--Hurstwood, amarried man, and never say a word to her? Never mind now aboutHurstwood's perfidy--why had he done this? Why hadn't he warnedher? There he stood now, guilty of this miserable breach ofconfidence and talking about what he had done for her!

"Well, I like that," exclaimed Drouet, little realising the firehis remark had generated.  "I think I've done a good deal."

"You have, eh?" she answered.  "You've deceived me--that's whatyou've done.  You've brought your old friends out here underfalse pretences.  You've made me out to be--Oh," and with thisher voice broke and she pressed her two little hands togethertragically.

"I don't see what that's got to do with it," said the drummerquaintly.

"No," she answered, recovering herself and shutting her teeth."No, of course you don't see.  There isn't anything you see.  Youcouldn't have told me in the first place, could you? You had tomake me out wrong until it was too late.  Now you come sneakingaround with your information and your talk about what you havedone."

Drouet had never suspected this side of Carrie's nature.  She wasalive with feeling, her eyes snapping, her lips quivering, herwhole body sensible of the injury she felt, and partaking of herwrath.

"Who's sneaking?" he asked, mildly conscious of error on hispart, but certain that he was wronged.

"You are," stamped Carrie.  "You're a horrid, conceited coward,that's what you are.  If you had any sense of manhood in you, youwouldn't have thought of doing any such thing."

The drummer stared.

"I'm not a coward," he said.  "What do you mean by going withother men, anyway?"

"Other men!" exclaimed Carrie.  "Other men--you know better thanthat.  I did go with Mr. Hurstwood, but whose fault was it?Didn't you bring him here? You told him yourself that he shouldcome out here and take me out.  Now, after it's all over, youcome and tell me that I oughtn't to go with him and that he's amarried man."

She paused at the sound of the last two words and wrung herhands.  The knowledge of Hurstwood's perfidy wounded her like aknife."Oh," she sobbed, repressing herself wonderfully and keeping hereyes dry.  "Oh, oh!"

"Well, I didn't think you'd be running around with him when I wasaway," insisted Drouet.

"Didn't think!" said Carrie, now angered to the core by the man'speculiar attitude.  "Of course not.  You thought only of whatwould be to your satisfaction.  You thought you'd make a toy ofme--a plaything.  Well, I'll show you that you won't.  I'll havenothing more to do with you at all.  You can take your old thingsand keep them," and unfastening a little pin he had given her,she flung it vigorously upon the floor and began to move about asif to gather up the things which belonged to her.

By this Drouet was not only irritated but fascinated the more.He looked at her in amazement, and finally said:

"I don't see where your wrath comes in.  I've got the right ofthis thing.  You oughtn't to have done anything that wasn't rightafter all I did for you."

"What have you done for me?" asked Carrie blazing, her headthrown back and her lips parted.

"I think I've done a good deal," said the drummer, lookingaround.  "I've given you all the clothes you wanted, haven't I?I've taken you everywhere you wanted to go.  You've had as muchas I've had, and more too."

Carrie was not ungrateful, whatever else might be said of her.In so far as her mind could construe, she acknowledged benefitsreceived.  She hardly knew how to answer this, and yet her wrathwas not placated.  She felt that the drummer had injured herirreparably.

"Did I ask you to?" she returned.

"Well, I did it," said Drouet, "and you took it."

"You talk as though I had persuaded you," answered Carrie.  "Youstand there and throw up what you've done.  I don't want your oldthings.  I'll not have them.  You take them to-night and do whatyou please with them.  I'll not stay here another minute."

"That's nice!" he answered, becoming angered now at the sense ofhis own approaching loss.  "Use everything and abuse me and thenwalk off.  That's just like a woman.  I take you when you haven'tgot anything, and then when some one else comes along, why I'm nogood.  I always thought it'd come out that way."

He felt really hurt as he thought of his treatment, and looked asif he saw no way of obtaining justice.

"It's not so," said Carrie, "and I'm not going with anybody else.You have been as miserable and inconsiderate as you can be.  Ihate you, I tell you, and I wouldn't live with you anotherminute.  You're a big, insulting"--here she hesitated and used noword at all--"or you wouldn't talk that way."

She had secured her hat and jacket and slipped the latter on overher little evening dress.  Some wisps of wavy hair had loosenedfrom the bands at the side of her head and were straggling overher hot, red cheeks.  She was angry, mortified, grief-stricken.Her large eyes were full of the anguish of tears, but her lidswere not yet wet.  She was distracted and uncertain, deciding anddoing things without an aim or conclusion, and she had not theslightest conception of how the whole difficulty would end.

"Well, that's a fine finish," said Drouet.  "Pack up and pullout, eh? You take the cake.  I bet you were knocking around withHurstwood or you wouldn't act like that.  I don't want the oldrooms.  You needn't pull out for me.  You can have them for all Icare, but b'George, you haven't done me right."

"I'll not live with you," said Carrie.  "I don't want to livewith you.  You've done nothing but brag around ever since you'vebeen here."

"Aw, I haven't anything of the kind," he answered.

Carrie walked over to the door.

"Where are you going?" he said, stepping over and heading heroff.

"Let me out," she said.

"Where are you going?" he repeated.

He was, above all, sympathetic, and the sight of Carrie wanderingout, he knew not where, affected him, despite his grievance.

Carrie merely pulled at the door.

The strain of the situation was too much for her, however.  Shemade one more vain effort and then burst into tears.

"Now, be reasonable, Cad," said Drouet gently.  "What do you wantto rush out for this way? You haven't any place to go.  Why notstay here now and be quiet? I'll not bother you.  I don't want tostay here any longer."

Carrie had gone sobbing from the door to the window.  She was soovercome she could not speak.

"Be reasonable now," he said.  "I don't want to hold you.  Youcan go if you want to, but why don't you think it over? Lordknows, I don't want to stop you."

He received no answer.  Carrie was quieting, however, under theinfluence of his plea.

"You stay here now, and I'll go," he added at last.

Carrie listened to this with mingled feelings.  Her mind wasshaken loose from the little mooring of logic that it had.  Shewas stirred by this thought, angered by that--her own injustice,Hurstwood's, Drouet's, their respective qualities of kindness andfavour, the threat of the world outside, in which she had failedonce before, the impossibility of this state inside, where thechambers were no longer justly hers, the effect of the argumentupon her nerves, all combined to make her a mass of janglingfibres--an anchorless, storm-beaten little craft which could doabsolutely nothing but drift.

"Say," said Drouet, coming over to her after a few moments, witha new idea, and putting his hand upon her.

"Don't!" said Carrie, drawing away, but not removing herhandkerchief from her eyes."Never mind about this quarrel now.  Let it go.  You stay hereuntil the month's out, anyhow, and then you can tell better whatyou want to do.  Eh?"

Carrie made no answer.

"You'd better do that," he said.  "There's no use your packing upnow.  You can't go anywhere."

Still he got nothing for his words.

"If you'll do that, we'll call it off for the present and I'llget out."

Carrie lowered her handkerchief slightly and looked out of thewindow.

"Will you do that?" he asked.

Still no answer.

"Will you?" he repeated.

She only looked vaguely into the street.

"Aw! come on," he said, "tell me.  Will you?"

"I don't know," said Carrie softly, forced to answer.

"Promise me you'll do that," he said, "and we'll quit talkingabout it.  It'll be the best thing for you."

Carrie heard him, but she could not bring herself to answerreasonably.  She felt that the man was gentle, and that hisinterest in her had not abated, and it made her suffer a pang ofregret.  She was in a most helpless plight.

As for Drouet, his attitude had been that of the jealous lover.Now his feelings were a mixture of anger at deception, sorrow atlosing Carrie, misery at being defeated.  He wanted his rights insome way or other, and yet his rights included the retaining ofCarrie, the making her feel her error.

"Will you?" he urged.

"Well, I'll see," said Carrie.

This left the matter as open as before, but it was something.  Itlooked as if the quarrel would blow over, if they could only getsome way of talking to one another.  Carrie was ashamed, andDrouet aggrieved.  He pretended to take up the task of packingsome things in a valise.

Now, as Carrie watched him out of the corner of her eye, certainsound thoughts came into her head.  He had erred, true, but whathad she done? He was kindly and good-natured for all his egotism.Throughout this argument he had said nothing very harsh.  On theother hand, there was Hurstwood--a greater deceiver than he.  Hehad pretended all this affection, all this passion, and he waslying to her all the while.  Oh, the perfidy of men! And she hadloved him.  There could be nothing more in that quarter.  Shewould see Hurstwood no more.  She would write him and let himknow what she thought.  Thereupon what would she do? Here werethese rooms.  Here was Drouet, pleading for her to remain.Evidently things could go on here somewhat as before, if all werearranged.  It would be better than the street, without a place tolay her head.

All this she thought of as Drouet rummaged the drawers forcollars and laboured long and painstakingly at finding a shirt-stud.  He was in no hurry to rush this matter.  He felt anattraction to Carrie which would not down.  He could not thinkthat the thing would end by his walking out of the room.  Theremust be some way round, some way to make her own up that he wasright and she was wrong--to patch up a peace and shut outHurstwood for ever.  Mercy, how he turned at the man's shamelessduplicity.

"Do you think," he said, after a few moments' silence, "thatyou'll try and get on the stage?"

He was wondering what she was intending.

"I don't know what I'll do yet," said Carrie.

"If you do, maybe I can help you.  I've got a lot of friends inthat line."

She made no answer to this.

"Don't go and try to knock around now without any money.  Let mehelp you," he said.  "It's no easy thing to go on your own hookhere."

Carrie only rocked back and forth in her chair.

"I don't want you to go up against a hard game that way."

He bestirred himself about some other details and Carrie rockedon.

"Why don't you tell me all about this thing," he said, after atime, "and let's call it off? You don't really care forHurstwood, do you?"

"Why do you want to start on that again?" said Carrie.  "You wereto blame."

"No, I wasn't," he answered.

"Yes, you were, too," said Carrie.  "You shouldn't have ever toldme such a story as that."

"But you didn't have much to do with him, did you?" went onDrouet, anxious for his own peace of mind to get some directdenial from her.

"I won't talk about it," said Carrie, pained at the quizzicalturn the peace arrangement had taken.

"What's the use of acting like that now, Cad?" insisted thedrummer, stopping in his work and putting up a hand expressively."You might let me know where I stand, at least."

"I won't," said Carrie, feeling no refuge but in anger."Whatever has happened is your own fault."

"Then you do care for him?" said Drouet, stopping completely andexperiencing a rush of feeling.

"Oh, stop!" said Carrie."Well, I'll not be made a fool of," exclaimed Drouet.  "You maytrifle around with him if you want to, but you can't lead me.You can tell me or not, just as you want to, but I won't fool anylonger!"

He shoved the last few remaining things he had laid out into hisvalise and snapped it with a vengeance.  Then he grabbed hiscoat, which he had laid off to work, picked up his gloves, andstarted out.

"You can go to the deuce as far as I am concerned," he said, ashe reached the door.  "I'm no sucker," and with that he opened itwith a jerk and closed it equally vigorously.

Carrie listened at her window view, more astonished than anythingelse at this sudden rise of passion in the drummer.  She couldhardly believe her senses--so good-natured and tractable had heinvariably been.  It was not for her to see the wellspring ofhuman passion.  A real flame of love is a subtle thing.  It burnsas a will-o'-the-wisp, dancing onward to fairylands of delight.It roars as a furnace.  Too often jealousy is the quality uponwhich it feeds.

Chapter XXIV

ASHES OF TINDER--A FACE AT THE WINDOW

That night Hurstwood remained down town entirely, going to thePalmer House for a bed after his work was through.  He was in afevered state of mind, owing to the blight his wife's actionthreatened to cast upon his entire future.  While he was not surehow much significance might be attached to the threat she hadmade, he was sure that her attitude, if long continued, wouldcause him no end of trouble.  She was determined, and had worstedhim in a very important contest.  How would it be from now on? Hewalked the floor of his little office, and later that of hisroom, putting one thing and another together to no avail.

Mrs. Hurstwood, on the contrary, had decided not to lose heradvantage by inaction.  Now that she had practically cowed him,she would follow up her work with demands, the acknowledgment ofwhich would make her word LAW in the future.  He would have topay her the money which she would now regularly demand or therewould be trouble.  It did not matter what he did.  She really didnot care whether he came home any more or not.  The householdwould move along much more pleasantly without him, and she coulddo as she wished without consulting any one.  Now she proposed toconsult a lawyer and hire a detective.  She would find out atonce just what advantages she could gain.

Hurstwood walked the floor, mentally arranging the chief pointsof his situation.  "She has that property in her name," he keptsaying to himself.  "What a fool trick that was.  Curse it! Whata fool move that was."

He also thought of his managerial position.  "If she raises a rownow I'll lose this thing.  They won't have me around if my namegets in the papers.  My friends, too!" He grew more angry as hethought of the talk any action on her part would create.  Howwould the papers talk about it? Every man he knew would bewondering.  He would have to explain and deny and make a generalmark of himself.  Then Moy would come and confer with him andthere would be the devil to pay.

Many little wrinkles gathered between his eyes as he contemplatedthis, and his brow moistened.  He saw no solution of anything--not a loophole left.

Through all this thoughts of Carrie flashed upon him, and theapproaching affair of Saturday.  Tangled as all his matters were,he did not worry over that.  It was the one pleasing thing inthis whole rout of trouble.  He could arrange thatsatisfactorily, for Carrie would be glad to wait, if necessary.He would see how things turned out to-morrow, and then he wouldtalk to her.  They were going to meet as usual.  He saw only herpretty face and neat figure and wondered why life was notarranged so that such joy as he found with her could be steadilymaintained.  How much more pleasant it would be.  Then he wouldtake up his wife's threat again, and the wrinkles and moisturewould return.

In the morning he came over from the hotel and opened his mail,but there was nothing in it outside the ordinary run.  For somereason he felt as if something might come that way, and wasrelieved when all the envelopes had been scanned and nothingsuspicious noticed.  He began to feel the appetite that had beenwanting before he had reached the office, and decided beforegoing out to the park to meet Carrie to drop in at the GrandPacific and have a pot of coffee and some rolls.  While thedanger had not lessened, it had not as yet materialised, and withhim no news was good news.  If he could only get plenty of timeto think, perhaps something would turn up.  Surely, surely, thisthing would not drift along to catastrophe and he not find a wayout.

His spirits fell, however, when, upon reaching the park, hewaited and waited and Carrie did not come.  He held his favouritepost for an hour or more, then arose and began to walk aboutrestlessly.  Could something have happened out there to keep heraway? Could she have been reached by his wife? Surely not.  Solittle did he consider Drouet that it never once occurred to himto worry about his finding out.  He grew restless as heruminated, and then decided that perhaps it was nothing.  She hadnot been able to get away this morning.  That was why no letternotifying him had come.  He would get one to-day.  It wouldprobably be on his desk when he got back.  He would look for itat once.

After a time he gave up waiting and drearily headed for theMadison car.  To add to his distress, the bright blue sky becameovercast with little fleecy clouds which shut out the sun.  Thewind veered to the east, and by the time he reached his office itwas threatening to drizzle all afternoon.

He went in and examined his letters, but there was nothing fromCarrie.  Fortunately, there was nothing from his wife either.  Hethanked his stars that he did not have to confront thatproposition just now when he needed to think so much.  He walkedthe floor again, pretending to be in an ordinary mood, butsecretly troubled beyond the expression of words.

At one-thirty he went to Rector's for lunch, and when he returneda messenger was waiting for him.  He looked at the little chapwith a feeling of doubt.

"I'm to bring an answer," said the boy.

Hurstwood recognised his wife's writing.  He tore it open andread without a show of feeling.  It began in the most formalmanner and was sharply and coldly worded throughout.

"I want you to send the money I asked for at once.  I need it tocarry out my plans.  You can stay away if you want to.  Itdoesn't matter in the least.  But I must have some money.  Sodon't delay, but send it by the boy."

When he had finished it, he stood holding it in his hands.  Theaudacity of the thing took his breath.  It roused his ire also--the deepest element of revolt in him.  His first impulse was towrite but four words in reply--"Go to the devil!"--but hecompromised by telling the boy that there would be no reply.Then he sat down in his chair and gazed without seeing,contemplating the result of his work.  What would she do aboutthat? The confounded wretch! Was she going to try to bulldoze himinto submission? He would go up there and have it out with her,that's what he would do.  She was carrying things with too high ahand.  These were his first thoughts.

Later, however, his old discretion asserted itself.  Somethinghad to be done.  A climax was near and she would not sit idle.He knew her well enough to know that when she had decided upon aplan she would follow it up.  Possibly matters would go into alawyer's hands at once.

"Damn her!" he said softly, with his teeth firmly set, "I'll makeit hot for her if she causes me trouble.  I'll make her changeher tone if I have to use force to do it!"

He arose from his chair and went and looked out into the street.The long drizzle had begun.  Pedestrians had turned up collars,and trousers at the bottom.  Hands were hidden in the pockets ofthe umbrellaless; umbrellas were up.  The street looked like asea of round black cloth roofs, twisting, bobbing, moving.Trucks and vans were rattling in a noisy line and everywhere menwere shielding themselves as best they could.  He scarcelynoticed the picture.  He was forever confronting his wife,demanding of her to change her attitude toward him before heworked her bodily harm.

At four o'clock another note came, which simply said that if themoney was not forthcoming that evening the matter would be laidbefore Fitzgerald and Moy on the morrow, and other steps would betaken to get it.

Hurstwood almost exclaimed out loud at the insistency of thisthing.  Yes, he would send her the money.  He'd take it to her--he would go up there and have a talk with her, and that at once.

He put on his hat and looked around for his umbrella.  He wouldhave some arrangement of this thing.

He called a cab and was driven through the dreary rain to theNorth Side.  On the way his temper cooled as he thought of thedetails of the case.  What did she know? What had she done? Maybeshe'd got hold of Carrie, who knows--or--or Drouet.  Perhaps shereally had evidence, and was prepared to fell him as a man doesanother from secret ambush.  She was shrewd.  Why should shetaunt him this way unless she had good grounds?

He began to wish that he had compromised in some way or other--that he had sent the money.  Perhaps he could do it up here.  Hewould go in and see, anyhow.  He would have no row.  By the timehe reached his own street he was keenly alive to the difficultiesof his situation and wished over and over that some solutionwould offer itself, that he could see his way out.  He alightedand went up the steps to the front door, but it was with anervous palpitation of the heart.  He pulled out his key andtried to insert it, but another key was on the inside.  He shookat the knob, but the door was locked.  Then he rang the bell.  Noanswer.  He rang again--this time harder.  Still no answer.  Hejangled it fiercely several times in succession, but withoutavail.  Then he went below.

There was a door which opened under the steps into the kitchen,protected by an iron grating, intended as a safeguard againstburglars.  When he reached this he noticed that it also wasbolted and that the kitchen windows were down.  What could itmean? He rang the bell and then waited.  Finally, seeing that noone was coming, he turned and went back to his cab.

"I guess they've gone out," he said apologetically to theindividual who was hiding his red face in a loose tarpaulinraincoat.

"I saw a young girl up in that winder," returned the cabby.

Hurstwood looked, but there was no face there now.  He climbedmoodily into the cab, relieved and distressed.

So this was the game, was it? Shut him out and make him pay.Well, by the Lord, that did beat all!

Chapter XXV

ASHES OF TINDER--THE LOOSING OF STAYS

When Hurstwood got back to his office again he was in a greaterquandary than ever.  Lord, Lord, he thought, what had he gotinto? How could things have taken such a violent turn, and soquickly? He could hardly realise how it had all come about.  Itseemed a monstrous, unnatural, unwarranted condition which hadsuddenly descended upon him without his let or hindrance.

Meanwhile he gave a thought now and then to Carrie.  What couldbe the trouble in that quarter? No letter had come, no word ofany kind, and yet here it was late in the evening and she hadagreed to meet him that morning.  To-morrow they were to have metand gone off--where? He saw that in the excitement of recentevents he had not formulated a plan upon that score.  He wasdesperately in love, and would have taken great chances to winher under ordinary circumstances, but now--now what? Supposingshe had found out something? Supposing she, too, wrote him andtold him that she knew all--that she would have nothing more todo with him? It would be just like this to happen as things weregoing now.  Meanwhile he had not sent the money.

He strolled up and down the polished floor of the resort, hishands in his pockets, his brow wrinkled, his mouth set.  He wasgetting some vague comfort out of a good cigar, but it was nopanacea for the ill which affected him.  Every once in a while hewould clinch his fingers and tap his foot--signs of the stirringmental process he was undergoing.  His whole nature wasvigorously and powerfully shaken up, and he was finding whatlimits the mind has to endurance.  He drank more brandy and sodathan he had any evening in months.  He was altogether a fineexample of great mental perturbation.

For all his study nothing came of the evening except this--hesent the money.  It was with great opposition, after two or threehours of the most urgent mental affirmation and denial, that atlast he got an envelope, placed in it the requested amount, andslowly sealed it up.

Then he called Harry, the boy of all work around the place.

"You take this to this address," he said, handing him theenvelope, "and give it to Mrs. Hurstwood."

"Yes, sir," said the boy.

"If she isn't there bring it back."

"Yes, sir"

"You've seen my wife?" he asked as a precautionary measure as theboy turned to go.

"Oh, yes, sir.  I know her."

"All right, now.  Hurry right back."

"Any answer?"

"I guess not."

The boy hastened away and the manager fell to his musings.  Nowhe had done it.  There was no use speculating over that.  He wasbeaten for to-night and he might just as well make the best ofit.  But, oh, the wretchedness of being forced this way! He couldsee her meeting the boy at the door and smiling sardonically.She would take the envelope and know that she had triumphed.  Ifhe only had that letter back he wouldn't send it.  He breathedheavily and wiped the moisture from his face.

For relief, he arose and joined in conversation with a fewfriends who were drinking.  He tried to get the interest ofthings about him, but it was not to be.  All the time histhoughts would run out to his home and see the scene beingtherein enacted.  All the time he was wondering what she wouldsay when the boy handed her the envelope.

In about an hour and three-quarters the boy returned.  He hadevidently delivered the package, for, as he came up, he made nosign of taking anything out of his pocket.

"Well?" said Hurstwood.

"I gave it to her."

"My wife?"

"Yes, sir."

"Any answer?"

"She said it was high time."

Hurstwood scowled fiercely.

There was no more to be done upon that score that night.  He wenton brooding over his situation until midnight, when he repairedagain to the Palmer House.  He wondered what the morning wouldbring forth, and slept anything but soundly upon it.Next day he went again to the office and opened his mail,suspicious and hopeful of its contents.  No word from Carrie.Nothing from his wife, which was pleasant.

The fact that he had sent the money and that she had received itworked to the ease of his mind, for, as the thought that he haddone it receded, his chagrin at it grew less and his hope ofpeace more.  He fancied, as he sat at his desk, that nothingwould be done for a week or two.  Meanwhile, he would have timeto think.

This process of THINKING began by a reversion to Carrie and thearrangement by which he was to get her away from Drouet.  Howabout that now? His pain at her failure to meet or write himrapidly increased as he devoted himself to this subject.  Hedecided to write her care of the West Side Post-office and askfor an explanation, as well as to have her meet him.  The thoughtthat this letter would probably not reach her until Monday chafedhim exceedingly.  He must get some speedier method--but how?

He thought upon it for a half-hour, not contemplating a messengeror a cab direct to the house, owing to the exposure of it, butfinding that time was slipping away to no purpose, he wrote theletter and then began to think again.

The hours slipped by, and with them the possibility of the unionhe had contemplated.  He had thought to be joyously aiding Carrieby now in the task of joining her interests to his, and here itwas afternoon and nothing done.  Three o'clock came, four, five,six, and no letter.  The helpless manager paced the floor andgrimly endured the gloom of defeat.  He saw a busy Saturdayushered out, the Sabbath in, and nothing done.  All day, the barbeing closed, he brooded alone, shut out from home, from theexcitement of his resort, from Carrie, and without the ability toalter his condition one iota.  It was the worst Sunday he hadspent in his life.

In Monday's second mail he encountered a very legal-lookingletter, which held his interest for some time.  It bore theimprint of the law offices of McGregor, James and Hay, and with avery formal "Dear Sir," and "We beg to state," went on to informhim briefly that they had been retained by Mrs. Julia Hurstwoodto adjust certain matters which related to her sustenance andproperty rights, and would he kindly call and see them about thematter at once.

He read it through carefully several times, and then merely shookhis head.  It seemed as if his family troubles were justbeginning.

"Well!" he said after a time, quite audibly, "I don't know."

Then he folded it up and put it in his pocket.

To add to his misery there was no word from Carrie.  He was quitecertain now that she knew he was married and was angered at hisperfidy.  His loss seemed all the more bitter now that he neededher most.  He thought he would go out and insist on seeing her ifshe did not send him word of some sort soon.  He was reallyaffected most miserably of all by this desertion.  He had lovedher earnestly enough, but now that the possibility of losing herstared him in the face she seemed much more attractive.  Hereally pined for a word, and looked out upon her with his mind'seye in the most wistful manner.  He did not propose to lose her,whatever she might think.  Come what might, he would adjust thismatter, and soon.  He would go to her and tell her all his familycomplications.  He would explain to her just where he stood andhow much he needed her.  Surely she couldn't go back on him now?It wasn't possible.  He would plead until her anger would melt--until she would forgive him.

Suddenly he thought: "Supposing she isn't out there--suppose shehas gone?"

He was forced to take his feet.  It was too much to think of andsit still.

Nevertheless, his rousing availed him nothing.

On Tuesday it was the same way.  He did manage to bring himselfinto the mood to go out to Carrie, but when he got in Ogden Placehe thought he saw a man watching him and went away.  He did notgo within a block of the house.

One of the galling incidents of this visit was that he came backon a Randolph Street car, and without noticing arrived almostopposite the building of the concern with which his son wasconnected.  This sent a pang through his heart.  He had called onhis boy there several times.  Now the lad had not sent him aword.  His absence did not seem to be noticed by either of hischildren.  Well, well, fortune plays a man queer tricks.  He gotback to his office and joined in a conversation with friends.  Itwas as if idle chatter deadened the sense of misery.

That night he dined at Rector's and returned at once to hisoffice.  In the bustle and show of the latter was his onlyrelief.  He troubled over many little details and talkedperfunctorily to everybody.  He stayed at his desk long after allothers had gone, and only quitted it when the night watchman onhis round pulled at the front door to see if it was safelylocked.

On Wednesday he received another polite note from McGregor, Jamesand Hay.  It read:

"Dear Sir: We beg to inform you that we are instructed to waituntil to-morrow (Thursday) at one o'clock, before filing suitagainst you, on behalf of Mrs. Julia Hurstwood, for divorce andalimony.  If we do not hear from you before that time we shallconsider that you do not wish to compromise the matter in any wayand act accordingly.  "Very truly yours, etc."

"Compromise!" exclaimed Hurstwood bitterly.  "Compromise!"

Again he shook his head.

So here it was spread out clear before him, and now he knew whatto expect.  If he didn't go and see them they would sue himpromptly.  If he did, he would be offered terms that would makehis blood boil.  He folded the letter and put it with the otherone.  Then he put on his hat and went for a turn about the block.

Chapter XXVI

THE AMBASSADOR FALLEN--A SEARCH FOR THE GATE

Carrie, left alone by Drouet, listened to his retreating steps,scarcely realising what had happened.  She knew that he hadstormed out.  It was some moments before she questioned whetherhe would return, not now exactly, but ever.  She looked aroundher upon the rooms, out of which the evening light was dying, andwondered why she did not feel quite the same towards them.  Shewent over to the dresser and struck a match, lighting the gas.Then she went back to the rocker to think.

It was some time before she could collect her thoughts, but whenshe did, this truth began to take on importance.  She was quitealone.  Suppose Drouet did not come back? Suppose she shouldnever hear anything more of him? This fine arrangement ofchambers would not last long.  She would have to quit them.

To her credit, be it said, she never once counted on Hurstwood.She could only approach that subject with a pang of sorrow andregret.  For a truth, she was rather shocked and frightened bythis evidence of human depravity.  He would have tricked herwithout turning an eyelash.  She would have been led into a newerand worse situation.  And yet she could not keep out the picturesof his looks and manners.  Only this one deed seemed strange andmiserable.  It contrasted sharply with all she felt and knewconcerning the man.

But she was alone.  That was the greater thought just at present.How about that? Would she go out to work again? Would she beginto look around in the business district? The stage! Oh, yes.Drouet had spoken about that.  Was there any hope there? Shemoved to and fro, in deep and varied thoughts, while the minutesslipped away and night fell completely.  She had had nothing toeat, and yet there she sat, thinking it over.

She remembered that she was hungry and went to the littlecupboard in the rear room where were the remains of one of theirbreakfasts.  She looked at these things with certain misgivings.The contemplation of food had more significance than usual.

While she was eating she began to wonder how much money she had.It struck her as exceedingly important, and without ado she wentto look for her purse.  It was on the dresser, and in it wereseven dollars in bills and some change.  She quailed as shethought of the insignificance of the amount and rejoiced becausethe rent was paid until the end of the month.  She began also tothink what she would have done if she had gone out into thestreet when she first started.  By the side of that situation, asshe looked at it now, the present seemed agreeable.  She had alittle time at least, and then, perhaps, everything would comeout all right, after all.

Drouet had gone, but what of it? He did not seem seriously angry.He only acted as if he were huffy.  He would come back--of coursehe would.  There was his cane in the corner.  Here was one of hiscollars.  He had left his light overcoat in the wardrobe.  Shelooked about and tried to assure herself with the sight of adozen such details, but, alas, the secondary thought arrived.Supposing he did come back.  Then what?

Here was another proposition nearly, if not quite, as disturbing.She would have to talk with and explain to him.  He would wanther to admit that he was right.  It would be impossible for herto live with him.

On Friday Carrie remembered her appointment with Hurstwood, andthe passing of the hour when she should, by all right of promise,have been in his company served to keep the calamity which hadbefallen her exceedingly fresh and clear.  In her nervousness andstress of mind she felt it necessary to act, and consequently puton a brown street dress, and at eleven o'clock started to visitthe business portion once again.  She must look for work.

The rain, which threatened at twelve and began at one, servedequally well to cause her to retrace her steps and remain withindoors as it did to reduce Hurstwood's spirits and give him awretched day.

The morrow was Saturday, a half-holiday in many businessquarters, and besides it was a balmy, radiant day, with the treesand grass shining exceedingly green after the rain of the nightbefore.  When she went out the sparrows were twittering merrilyin joyous choruses.  She could not help feeling, as she lookedacross the lovely park, that life was a joyous thing for thosewho did not need to worry, and she wished over and over thatsomething might interfere now to preserve for her the comfortablestate which she had occupied.  She did not want Drouet or hismoney when she thought of it, nor anything more to do withHurstwood, but only the content and ease of mind she hadexperienced, for, after all, she had been happy--happier, atleast, than she was now when confronted by the necessity ofmaking her way alone.

When she arrived in the business part it was quite eleveno'clock, and the business had little longer to run.  She did notrealise this at first, being affected by some of the old distresswhich was a result of her earlier adventure into this strenuousand exacting quarter.  She wandered about, assuring herself thatshe was making up her mind to look for something, and at the sametime feeling that perhaps it was not necessary to be in suchhaste about it.  The thing was difficult to encounter, and shehad a few days.  Besides, she was not sure that she was reallyface to face again with the bitter problem of self-sustenance.Anyhow, there was one change for the better.  She knew that shehad improved in appearance.  Her manner had vastly changed.  Herclothes were becoming, and men--well-dressed men, some of thekind who before had gazed at her indifferently from behind theirpolished railings and imposing office partitions--now gazed intoher face with a soft light in their eyes.  In a way, she felt thepower and satisfaction of the thing, but it did not whollyreassure her.  She looked for nothing save what might comelegitimately and without the appearance of special favour.  Shewanted something, but no man should buy her by falseprotestations or favour.  She proposed to earn her livinghonestly.

"This store closes at one on Saturdays," was a pleasing andsatisfactory legend to see upon doors which she felt she ought toenter and inquire for work.  It gave her an excuse, and afterencountering quite a number of them, and noting that the clockregistered 12.15, she decided that it would be no use to seekfurther to-day, so she got on a car and went to Lincoln Park.There was always something to see there--the flowers, theanimals, the lake--and she flattered herself that on Monday shewould be up betimes and searching.  Besides, many things mighthappen between now and Monday.

Sunday passed with equal doubts, worries, assurances, and heavenknows what vagaries of mind and spirit.  Every half-hour in theday the thought would come to her most sharply, like the tail ofa swishing whip, that action--immediate action--was imperative.At other times she would look about her and assure herself thatthings were not so bad--that certainly she would come out safeand sound.  At such times she would think of Drouet's adviceabout going on the stage, and saw some chance for herself in thatquarter.  She decided to take up that opportunity on the morrow.

Accordingly, she arose early Monday morning and dressed herselfcarefully.  She did not know just how such applications weremade, but she took it to be a matter which related more directlyto the theatre buildings.  All you had to do was to inquire ofsome one about the theatre for the manager and ask for aposition.  If there was anything, you might get it, or, at least,he could tell you how.

She had had no experience with this class of individualswhatsoever, and did not know the salacity and humour of thetheatrical tribe.  She only knew of the position which Mr. Haleoccupied, but, of all things, she did not wish to encounter thatpersonage, on account of her intimacy with his wife.

There was, however, at this time, one theatre, the Chicago OperaHouse, which was considerably in the public eye, and its manager,David A. Henderson, had a fair local reputation.  Carrie had seenone or two elaborate performances there and had heard of severalothers.  She knew nothing of Henderson nor of the methods ofapplying, but she instinctively felt that this would be a likelyplace, and accordingly strolled about in that neighbourhood.  Shecame bravely enough to the showy entrance way, with the polishedand begilded lobby, set with framed pictures out of the currentattraction, leading up to the quiet box-office, but she could getno further.  A noted comic opera comedian was holding forth thatweek, and the air of distinction and prosperity overawed her.She could not imagine that there would be anything in such alofty sphere for her.  She almost trembled at the audacity whichmight have carried her on to a terrible rebuff.  She could findheart only to look at the pictures which were showy and then walkout.  It seemed to her as if she had made a splendid escape andthat it would be foolhardy to think of applying in that quarteragain.

This little experience settled her hunting for one day.  Shelooked around elsewhere, but it was from the outside.  She gotthe location of several playhouses fixed in her mind--notably theGrand Opera House and McVickar's, both of which were leading inattractions--and then came away.  Her spirits were materiallyreduced, owing to the newly restored sense of magnitude of thegreat interests and the insignificance of her claims uponsociety, such as she understood them to be.

That night she was visited by Mrs. Hale, whose chatter andprotracted stay made it impossible to dwell upon her predicamentor the fortune of the day.  Before retiring, however, she satdown to think, and gave herself up to the most gloomyforebodings.  Drouet had not put in an appearance.  She had hadno word from any quarter, she had spent a dollar of her precioussum in procuring food and paying car fare.  It was evident thatshe would not endure long.  Besides, she had discovered noresource.

In this situation her thoughts went out to her sister in VanBuren Street, whom she had not seen since the night of herflight, and to her home at Columbia City, which seemed now a partof something that could not be again.  She looked for no refugein that direction.  Nothing but sorrow was brought her bythoughts of Hurstwood, which would return.  That he could havechosen to dupe her in so ready a manner seemed a cruel thing.

Tuesday came, and with it appropriate indecision and speculation.She was in no mood, after her failure of the day before, tohasten forth upon her work-seeking errand, and yet she rebukedherself for what she considered her weakness the day before.Accordingly she started out to revisit the Chicago Opera House,but possessed scarcely enough courage to approach.

She did manage to inquire at the box-office, however.

"Manager of the company or the house?" asked the smartly dressedindividual who took care of the tickets.  He was favourablyimpressed by Carrie's looks.

"I don't know," said Carrie, taken back by the question.

"You couldn't see the manager of the house to-day, anyhow,"volunteered the young man.  "He's out of town."

He noted her puzzled look, and then added: "What is it you wishto see about?"

"I want to see about getting a position," she answered.

"You'd better see the manager of the company," he returned, "buthe isn't here now."

"When will he be in?" asked Carrie, somewhat relieved by thisinformation.

"Well, you might find him in between eleven and twelve.  He'shere after two o'clock."

Carrie thanked him and walked briskly out, while the young mangazed after her through one of the side windows of his gildedcoop.

"Good-looking," he said to himself, and proceeded to visions ofcondescensions on her part which were exceedingly flattering tohimself.

One of the principal comedy companies of the day was playing anengagement at the Grand Opera House.  Here Carrie asked to seethe manager of the company.  She little knew the trivialauthority of this individual, or that had there been a vacancy anactor would have been sent on from New York to fill it.

"His office is upstairs," said a man in the box-office.

Several persons were in the manager's office, two lounging near awindow, another talking to an individual sitting at a roll-topdesk--the manager.  Carrie glanced nervously about, and began tofear that she should have to make her appeal before the assembledcompany, two of whom--the occupants of the window--were alreadyobserving her carefully.

"I can't do it," the manager was saying; "it's a rule of Mr.Frohman's never to allow visitors back of the stage.  No, no!"

Carrie timidly waited, standing.  There were chairs, but no onemotioned her to be seated.  The individual to whom the managerhad been talking went away quite crestfallen.  That luminarygazed earnestly at some papers before him, as if they were of thegreatest concern.

"Did you see that in the 'Herald' this morning about Nat Goodwin,Harris?"

"No," said the person addressed.  "What was it?""Made quite a curtain address at Hooley's last night.  Betterlook it up."

Harris reached over to a table and began to look for the"Herald."

"What is it?" said the manager to Carrie, apparently noticing herfor the first time.  He thought he was going to be held up forfree tickets.

Carrie summoned up all her courage, which was little at best.She realised that she was a novice, and felt as if a rebuff werecertain.  Of this she was so sure that she only wished now topretend she had called for advice.

"Can you tell me how to go about getting on the stage?"

It was the best way after all to have gone about the matter.  Shewas interesting, in a manner, to the occupant of the chair, andthe simplicity of her request and attitude took his fancy.  Hesmiled, as did the others in the room, who, however, made someslight effort to conceal their humour.

"I don't know," he answered, looking her brazenly over.  "Haveyou ever had any experience upon the stage?"

"A little," answered Carrie.  "I have taken part in amateurperformances."

She thought she had to make some sort of showing in order toretain his interest.

"Never studied for the stage?" he said, putting on an airintended as much to impress his friends with his discretion asCarrie.

"No, sir."

"Well, I don't know," he answered, tipping lazily back in hischair while she stood before him.  "What makes you want to get onthe stage?"

She felt abashed at the man's daring, but could only smile inanswer to his engaging smirk, and say:

"I need to make a living."

"Oh," he answered, rather taken by her trim appearance, andfeeling as if he might scrape up an acquaintance with her."That's a good reason, isn't it? Well, Chicago is not a goodplace for what you want to do.  You ought to be in New York.There's more chance there.  You could hardly expect to getstarted out here." Carrie smiled genially, grateful that heshould condescend to advise her even so much.  He noticed thesmile, and put a slightly different construction on it.  Hethought he saw an easy chance for a little flirtation.

"Sit down," he said, pulling a chair forward from the side of hisdesk and dropping his voice so that the two men in the roomshould not hear.  Those two gave each other the suggestion of awink.

"Well, I'll be going, Barney," said one, breaking away and soaddressing the manager.  "See you this afternoon."

"All right," said the manager.

The remaining individual took up a paper as if to read.

"Did you have any idea what sort of part you would like to get?"asked the manager softly.

"Oh, no," said Carrie.  "I would take anything to begin with."

"I see," he said.  "Do you live here in the city?"

"Yes, sir."

The manager smiled most blandly.

"Have you ever tried to get in as a chorus girl?" he asked,assuming a more confidential air.

Carrie began to feel that there was something exuberant andunnatural in his manner.

"No," she said.

"That's the way most girls begin," he went on, "who go on thestage.  It's a good way to get experience."

He was turning on her a glance of the companionable andpersuasive manner.

"I didn't know that," said Carrie.

"It's a difficult thing," he went on, "but there's always achance, you know." Then, as if he suddenly remembered, he pulledout his watch and consulted it.  "I've an appointment at two," hesaid, "and I've got to go to lunch now.  Would you care to comeand dine with me? We can talk it over there."

"Oh, no," said Carrie, the whole motive of the man flashing onher at once.  "I have an engagement myself."

"That's too bad," he said, realising that he had been a littlebeforehand in his offer and that Carrie was about to go away."Come in later.  I may know of something."

"Thank you," she answered, with some trepidation and went out.

"She was good-looking, wasn't she?" said the manager's companion,who had not caught all the details of the game he had played.

"Yes, in a way," said the other, sore to think the game had beenlost.  "She'd never make an actress, though.  Just another chorusgirl--that's all."

This little experience nearly destroyed her ambition to call uponthe manager at the Chicago Opera House, but she decided to do soafter a time.  He was of a more sedate turn of mind.  He said atonce that there was no opening of any sort, and seemed toconsider her search foolish.

"Chicago is no place to get a start," he said.  "You ought to bein New York."

Still she persisted, and went to McVickar's, where she could notfind any one.  "The Old Homestead" was running there, but theperson to whom she was referred was not to be found.

These little expeditions took up her time until quite fouro'clock, when she was weary enough to go home.  She felt as ifshe ought to continue and inquire elsewhere, but the results sofar were too dispiriting.  She took the car and arrived at OgdenPlace in three-quarters of an hour, but decided to ride on to theWest Side branch of the Post-office, where she was accustomed toreceive Hurstwood's letters.  There was one there now, writtenSaturday, which she tore open and read with mingled feelings.There was so much warmth in it and such tense complaint at herhaving failed to meet him, and her subsequent silence, that sherather pitied the man.  That he loved her was evident enough.That he had wished and dared to do so, married as he was, was theevil.  She felt as if the thing deserved an answer, andconsequently decided that she would write and let him know thatshe knew of his married state and was justly incensed at hisdeception.  She would tell him that it was all over between them.

At her room, the wording of this missive occupied her for sometime, for she fell to the task at once.  It was most difficult.

"You do not need to have me explain why I did not meet you," shewrote in part.  "How could you deceive me so? You cannot expectme to have anything more to do with you.  I wouldn't under anycircumstances.  Oh, how could you act so?" she added in a burstof feeling.  "You have caused me more misery than you can think.I hope you will get over your infatuation for me.  We must notmeet any more.  Good-bye."

She took the letter the next morning, and at the corner droppedit reluctantly into the letter-box, still uncertain as to whethershe should do so or not.  Then she took the car and went downtown.

This was the dull season with the department stores, but she waslistened to with more consideration than was usually accorded toyoung women applicants, owing to her neat and attractiveappearance.  She was asked the same old questions with which shewas already familiar.

"What can you do? Have you ever worked in a retail store before?Are you experienced?"

At The Fair, See and Company's, and all the great stores it wasmuch the same.  It was the dull season, she might come in alittle later, possibly they would like to have her.

When she arrived at the house at the end of the day, weary anddisheartened, she discovered that Drouet had been there.  Hisumbrella and light overcoat were gone.  She thought she missedother things, but could not be sure.  Everything had not beentaken.

So his going was crystallising into staying.  What was she to donow? Evidently she would be facing the world in the same old waywithin a day or two.  Her clothes would get poor.  She put hertwo hands together in her customary expressive way and pressedher fingers.  Large tears gathered in her eyes and broke hotacross her cheeks.  She was alone, very much alone.

Drouet really had called, but it was with a very different mindfrom that which Carrie had imagined.  He expected to find her, tojustify his return by claiming that he came to get the remainingportion of his wardrobe, and before he got away again to patch upa peace.

Accordingly, when he arrived, he was disappointed to find Carrieout.  He trifled about, hoping that she was somewhere in theneighbourhood and would soon return.  He constantly listened,expecting to hear her foot on the stair.

When he did so, it was his intention to make believe that he hadjust come in and was disturbed at being caught.  Then he wouldexplain his need of his clothes and find out how things stood.

Wait as he did, however, Carrie did not come.  From potteringaround among the drawers, in momentary expectation of her arrivalhe changed to looking out of the window, and from that to restinghimself in the rocking-chair.  Still no Carrie.  He began to growrestless and lit a cigar.  After that he walked the floor.  Thenhe looked out of the window and saw clouds gathering.  Heremembered an appointment at three.  He began to think that itwould be useless to wait, and got hold of his umbrella and lightcoat, intending to take these things, any way.  It would scareher, he hoped.  To-morrow he would come back for the others.  Hewould find out how things stood.

As he started to go he felt truly sorry that he had missed her.There was a little picture of her on the wall, showing herarrayed in the little jacket he had first bought her--her face alittle more wistful than he had seen it lately.  He was reallytouched by it, and looked into the eyes of it with a rather rarefeeling for him.

"You didn't do me right, Cad," he said, as if he were addressingher in the flesh.

Then he went to the door, took a good look around and went out.

Chapter XXVII

WHEN WATERS ENGULF US WE REACH FOR A STAR

It was when he returned from his disturbed stroll about thestreets, after receiving the decisive note from McGregor, Jamesand Hay, that Hurstwood found the letter Carrie had written himthat morning.  He thrilled intensely as he noted the handwriting,and rapidly tore it open.

"Then," he thought, "she loves me or she would not have writtento me at all."

He was slightly depressed at the tenor of the note for the firstfew minutes, but soon recovered.  "She wouldn't write at all ifshe didn't care for me."

This was his one resource against the depression which held him.He could extract little from the wording of the letter, but thespirit he thought he knew.

There was really something exceedingly human--if not pathetic--inhis being thus relieved by a clearly worded reproof.  He who hadfor so long remained satisfied with himself now looked outside ofhimself for comfort--and to such a source.  The mystic cords ofaffection! How they bind us all.

The colour came to his cheeks.  For the moment he forgot theletter from McGregor, James and Hay.  If he could only haveCarrie, perhaps he could get out of the whole entanglement--perhaps it would not matter.  He wouldn't care what his wife didwith herself if only he might not lose Carrie.  He stood up andwalked about, dreaming his delightful dream of a life continuedwith this lovely possessor of his heart.

It was not long, however, before the old worry was back forconsideration, and with it what weariness! He thought of themorrow and the suit.  He had done nothing, and here was theafternoon slipping away.  It was now a quarter of four.  At fivethe attorneys would have gone home.  He still had the morrowuntil noon.  Even as he thought, the last fifteen minutes passedaway and it was five.  Then he abandoned the thought of seeingthem any more that day and turned to Carrie.

It is to be observed that the man did not justify himself tohimself.  He was not troubling about that.  His whole thought wasthe possibility of persuading Carrie.  Nothing was wrong in that.He loved her dearly.  Their mutual happiness depended upon it.Would that Drouet were only away!

While he was thinking thus elatedly, he remembered that he wantedsome clean linen in the morning.

This he purchased, together with a half-dozen ties, and went tothe Palmer House.  As he entered he thought he saw Drouetascending the stairs with a key.  Surely not Drouet! Then hethought, perhaps they had changed their abode temporarily.  Hewent straight up to the desk.

"Is Mr. Drouet stopping here?" he asked of the clerk.

"I think he is," said the latter, consulting his private registrylist.  "Yes."

"Is that so?" exclaimed Hurstwood, otherwise concealing hisastonishment.  "Alone?" he added.

"Yes," said the clerk.

Hurstwood turned away and set his lips so as best to express andconceal his feelings.

"How's that?" he thought.  "They've had a row."

He hastened to his room with rising spirits and changed hislinen.  As he did so, he made up his mind that if Carrie wasalone, or if she had gone to another place, it behooved him tofind out.  He decided to call at once.

"I know what I'll do," he thought.  "I'll go to the door and askif Mr. Drouet is at home.  That will bring out whether he isthere or not and where Carrie is."

He was almost moved to some muscular display as he thought of it.He decided to go immediately after supper.

On coming down from his room at six, he looked carefully about tosee if Drouet was present and then went out to lunch.  He couldscarcely eat, however, he was so anxious to be about his errand.Before starting he thought it well to discover where Drouet wouldbe, and returned to his hotel.

"Has Mr. Drouet gone out?" he asked of the clerk.

"No," answered the latter, "he's in his room.  Do you wish tosend up a card?""No, I'll call around later," answered Hurstwood, and strolledout.

He took a Madison car and went direct to Ogden Place this timewalking boldly up to the door.  The chambermaid answered hisknock.

"Is Mr. Drouet in?" said Hurstwood blandly.

"He is out of the city," said the girl, who had heard Carrie tellthis to Mrs. Hale.

"Is Mrs. Drouet in?"

"No, she has gone to the theatre."

"Is that so?" said Hurstwood, considerably taken back; then, asif burdened with something important, "You don't know to whichtheatre?"

The girl really had no idea where she had gone, but not likingHurstwood, and wishing to cause him trouble, answered: "Yes,Hooley's."

"Thank you," returned the manager, and, tipping his hat slightly,went away.

"I'll look in at Hooley's," thought he, but as a matter of facthe did not.  Before he had reached the central portion of thecity he thought the whole matter over and decided it would beuseless.  As much as he longed to see Carrie, he knew she wouldbe with some one and did not wish to intrude with his plea there.A little later he might do so--in the morning.  Only in themorning he had the lawyer question before him.

This little pilgrimage threw quite a wet blanket upon his risingspirits.  He was soon down again to his old worry, and reachedthe resort anxious to find relief.  Quite a company of gentlemenwere making the place lively with their conversation.  A group ofCook County politicians were conferring about a round cherry-woodtable in the rear portion of the room.  Several young merrymakerswere chattering at the bar before making a belated visit to thetheatre.  A shabbily-genteel individual, with a red nose and anold high hat, was sipping a quiet glass of ale alone at one endof the bar.  Hurstwood nodded to the politicians and went intohis office.

About ten o'clock a friend of his, Mr. Frank L.  Taintor, a localsport and racing man, dropped in, and seeing Hurstwood alone inhis office came to the door.

"Hello, George!" he exclaimed.

"How are you, Frank?" said Hurstwood, somewhat relieved by thesight of him.  "Sit down," and he motioned him to one of thechairs in the little room.

"What's the matter, George?" asked Taintor.  "You look a littleglum.  Haven't lost at the track, have you?"

"I'm not feeling very well to-night.  I had a slight cold theother day."

"Take whiskey, George," said Taintor.  "You ought to know that."

Hurstwood smiled.

While they were still conferring there, several other ofHurstwood's friends entered, and not long after eleven, thetheatres being out, some actors began to drop in--among them somenotabilities.

Then began one of those pointless social conversations so commonin American resorts where the would-be gilded attempt to rub offgilt from those who have it in abundance.  If Hurstwood had oneleaning, it was toward notabilities.  He considered that, ifanywhere, he belonged among them.  He was too proud to toady, tookeen not to strictly observe the plane he occupied when therewere those present who did not appreciate him, but, in situationslike the present, where he could shine as a gentleman and bereceived without equivocation as a friend and equal among men ofknown ability, he was most delighted.  It was on such occasions,if ever, that he would "take something."  When the social flavourwas strong enough he would even unbend to the extent of drinkingglass for glass with his associates, punctiliously observing histurn to pay as if he were an outsider like the others.  If heever approached intoxication--or rather that ruddy warmth andcomfortableness which precedes the more sloven state--it was whenindividuals such as these were gathered about him, when he wasone of a circle of chatting celebrities.  To-night, disturbed aswas his state, he was rather relieved to find company, and nowthat notabilities were gathered, he laid aside his troubles forthe nonce, and joined in right heartily.

It was not long before the imbibing began to tell.  Stories beganto crop up--those ever-enduring, droll stories which form themajor portion of the conversation among American men under suchcircumstances.

Twelve o'clock arrived, the hour for closing, and with it thecompany took leave.  Hurstwood shook hands with them mostcordially.  He was very roseate physically.  He had arrived atthat state where his mind, though clear, was, nevertheless, warmin its fancies.  He felt as if his troubles were not veryserious.  Going into his office, he began to turn over certainaccounts, awaiting the departure of the bartenders and thecashier, who soon left.

It was the manager's duty, as well as his custom, after all weregone to see that everything was safely closed up for the night.As a rule, no money except the cash taken in after banking hourswas kept about the place, and that was locked in the safe by thecashier, who, with the owners, was joint keeper of the secretcombination, but, nevertheless, Hurstwood nightly took theprecaution to try the cash drawers and the safe in order to seethat they were tightly closed.  Then he would lock his own littleoffice and set the proper light burning near the safe, afterwhich he would take his departure.

Never in his experience had he found anything out of order, butto-night, after shutting down his desk, he came out and tried thesafe.  His way was to give a sharp pull.  This time the doorresponded.  He was slightly surprised at that, and looking infound the money cases as left for the day, apparentlyunprotected.  His first thought was, of course, to inspect thedrawers and shut the door.

"I'll speak to Mayhew about this to-morrow," he thought.

The latter had certainly imagined upon going out a half-hourbefore that he had turned the knob on the door so as to springthe lock.  He had never failed to do so before.  But to-nightMayhew had other thoughts.  He had been revolving the problem ofa business of his own.

"I'll look in here," thought the manager, pulling out the moneydrawers.  He did not know why he wished to look in there.  It wasquite a superfluous action, which another time might not havehappened at all.

As he did so, a layer of bills, in parcels of a thousand, such asbanks issue, caught his eye.  He could not tell how much theyrepresented, but paused to view them.  Then he pulled out thesecond of the cash drawers.  In that were the receipts of theday.

"I didn't know Fitzgerald and Moy ever left any money this way,"his mind said to itself.  "They must have forgotten it."

He looked at the other drawer and paused again.

"Count them," said a voice in his ear.

He put his hand into the first of the boxes and lifted the stack,letting the separate parcels fall.  They were bills of fifty andone hundred dollars done in packages of a thousand.  He thoughthe counted ten such.

"Why don't I shut the safe?" his mind said to itself, lingering."What makes me pause here?"

For answer there came the strangest words:

"Did you ever have ten thousand dollars in ready money?"

Lo, the manager remembered that he had never had so much.  Allhis property had been slowly accumulated, and now his wife ownedthat.  He was worth more than forty thousand, all told--but shewould get that.

He puzzled as he thought of these things, then pushed in thedrawers and closed the door, pausing with his hand upon the knob,which might so easily lock it all beyond temptation.  Still hepaused.  Finally he went to the windows and pulled down thecurtains.  Then he tried the door, which he had previouslylocked.  What was this thing, making him suspicious? Why did hewish to move about so quietly.  He came back to the end of thecounter as if to rest his arm and think.  Then he went andunlocked his little office door and turned on the light.  He alsoopened his desk, sitting down before it, only to think strangethoughts.

"The safe is open," said a voice.  "There is just the leastlittle crack in it.  The lock has not been sprung."

The manager floundered among a jumble of thoughts.  Now all theentanglement of the day came back.  Also the thought that herewas a solution.  That money would do it.  If he had that andCarrie.  He rose up and stood stock-still, looking at the floor.

"What about it?" his mind asked, and for answer he put his handslowly up and scratched his head.

The manager was no fool to be led blindly away by such an errantproposition as this, but his situation was peculiar.  Wine was inhis veins.  It had crept up into his head and given him a warmview of the situation.  It also coloured the possibilities of tenthousand for him.  He could see great opportunities with that.He could get Carrie.  Oh, yes, he could! He could get rid of hiswife.  That letter, too, was waiting discussion to-morrowmorning.  He would not need to answer that.  He went back to thesafe and put his hand on the knob.  Then he pulled the door openand took the drawer with the money quite out.

With it once out and before him, it seemed a foolish thing tothink about leaving it.  Certainly it would.  Why, he could livequietly with Carrie for years.

Lord! what was that? For the first time he was tense, as if astern hand had been laid upon his shoulder.  He looked fearfullyaround.  Not a soul was present.  Not a sound.  Some one wasshuffling by on the sidewalk.  He took the box and the money andput it back in the safe.  Then he partly closed the door again.

To those who have never wavered in conscience, the predicament ofthe individual whose mind is less strongly constituted and whotrembles in the balance between duty and desire is scarcelyappreciable, unless graphically portrayed.  Those who have neverheard that solemn voice of the ghostly clock which ticks withawful distinctness, "thou shalt," "thou shalt not," "thou shalt,""thou shalt not," are in no position to judge.  Not alone insensitive, highly organised natures is such a mental conflictpossible.  The dullest specimen of humanity, when drawn by desiretoward evil, is recalled by a sense of right, which isproportionate in power and strength to his evil tendency.  Wemust remember that it may not be a knowledge of right, for noknowledge of right is predicated of the animal's instinctiverecoil at evil.  Men are still led by instinct before they areregulated by knowledge.  It is instinct which recalls thecriminal--it is instinct (where highly organised reasoning isabsent) which gives the criminal his feeling of danger, his fearof wrong.

At every first adventure, then, into some untried evil, the mindwavers.  The clock of thought ticks out its wish and its denial.To those who have never experienced such a mental dilemma, thefollowing will appeal on the simple ground of revelation.

When Hurstwood put the money back, his nature again resumed itsease and daring.  No one had observed him.  He was quite alone.No one could tell what he wished to do.  He could work this thingout for himself.

The imbibation of the evening had not yet worn off.  Moist as washis brow, tremble as did his hand once after the nameless fright,he was still flushed with the fumes of liquor.  He scarcelynoticed that the time was passing.  He went over his situationonce again, his eye always seeing the money in a lump, his mindalways seeing what it would do.  He strolled into his littleroom, then to the door, then to the safe again.  He put his handon the knob and opened it.  There was the money! Surely no harmcould come from looking at it!

He took out the drawer again and lifted the bills.  They were sosmooth, so compact, so portable.  How little they made, afterall.  He decided he would take them.  Yes, he would.  He wouldput them in his pocket.  Then he looked at that and saw theywould not go there.  His hand satchel! To be sure, his handsatchel.  They would go in that--all of it would.  No one wouldthink anything of it either.  He went into the little office andtook it from the shelf in the corner.  Now he set it upon hisdesk and went out toward the safe.  For some reason he did notwant to fill it out in the big room.First he brought the bills and then the loose receipts of theday.  He would take it all.  He put the empty drawers back andpushed the iron door almost to, then stood beside it meditating.

The wavering of a mind under such circumstances is an almostinexplicable thing, and yet it is absolutely true.  Hurstwoodcould not bring himself to act definitely.  He wanted to thinkabout it--to ponder over it, to decide whether it were best.  Hewas drawn by such a keen desire for Carrie, driven by such astate of turmoil in his own affairs that he thought constantly itwould be best, and yet he wavered.  He did not know what evilmight result from it to him--how soon he might come to grief.The true ethics of the situation never once occurred to him, andnever would have, under any circumstances.

After he had all the money in the handbag, a revulsion of feelingseized him.  He would not do it--no! Think of what a scandal itwould make.  The police! They would be after him.  He would haveto fly, and where? Oh, the terror of being a fugitive fromjustice! He took out the two boxes and put all the money back.In his excitement he forgot what he was doing, and put the sumsin the wrong boxes.  As he pushed the door to, he thought heremembered doing it wrong and opened the door again.  There werethe two boxes mixed.

He took them out and straightened the matter, but now the terrorhad gone.  Why be afraid?

While the money was in his hand the lock clicked.  It had sprung!Did he do it? He grabbed at the knob and pulled vigorously.  Ithad closed.  Heavens! he was in for it now, sure enough.

The moment he realised that the safe was locked for a surety, thesweat burst out upon his brow and he trembled violently.  Helooked about him and decided instantly.  There was no delayingnow.

"Supposing I do lay it on the top," he said, "and go away,they'll know who took it.  I'm the last to close up.  Besides,other things will happen."

At once he became the man of action.

"I must get out of this," he thought.

He hurried into his little room, took down his light overcoat andhat, locked his desk, and grabbed the satchel.  Then he turnedout all but one light and opened the door.  He tried to put onhis old assured air, but it was almost gone.  He was repentingrapidly.

"I wish I hadn't done that," he said.  "That was a mistake."

He walked steadily down the street, greeting a night watchmanwhom he knew who was trying doors.  He must get out of the city,and that quickly.

"I wonder how the trains run?" he thought.

Instantly he pulled out his watch and looked.  It was nearlyhalf-past one.

At the first drugstore he stopped, seeing a long-distancetelephone booth inside.  It was a famous drugstore, and containedone of the first private telephone booths ever erected."I want to use your 'phone a minute," he said to the night clerk.

The latter nodded.

"Give me 1643," he called to Central, after looking up theMichigan Central depot number.  Soon he got the ticket agent.

"How do the trains leave here for Detroit?" he asked.

The man explained the hours.

"No more to-night?"

"Nothing with a sleeper.  Yes, there is, too," he added.  "Thereis a mail train out of here at three o'clock."

"All right," said Hurstwood.  "What time does that get toDetroit?"

He was thinking if he could only get there and cross the riverinto Canada, he could take his time about getting to Montreal.He was relieved to learn that it would reach there by noon.

"Mayhew won't open the safe till nine," he thought.  "They can'tget on my track before noon."

Then he thought of Carrie.  With what speed must he get her, ifhe got her at all.  She would have to come along.  He jumped intothe nearest cab standing by.

"To Ogden Place," he said sharply.  "I'll give you a dollar moreif you make good time."

The cabby beat his horse into a sort of imitation gallop whichwas fairly fast, however.  On the way Hurstwood thought what todo.  Reaching the number, he hurried up the steps and did notspare the bell in waking the servant.

"Is Mrs. Drouet in?" he asked.

"Yes," said the astonished girl.

"Tell her to dress and come to the door at once.  Her husband isin the hospital, injured, and wants to see her."

The servant girl hurried upstairs, convinced by the man'sstrained and emphatic manner.

"What!" said Carrie, lighting the gas and searching for herclothes.

"Mr. Drouet is hurt and in the hospital.  He wants to see you.The cab's downstairs."

Carrie dressed very rapidly, and soon appeared below, forgettingeverything save the necessities.

"Drouet is hurt," said Hurstwood quickly.  "He wants to see you.Come quickly."

Carrie was so bewildered that she swallowed the whole story.

"Get in," said Hurstwood, helping her and jumping after.

The cabby began to turn the horse around."Michigan Central depot," he said, standing up and speaking solow that Carrie could not hear, "as fast as you can go."

Chapter XXVIII

A PILGRIM, AN OUTLAW--THE SPIRIT DETAINED

The cab had not travelled a short block before Carrie, settlingherself and thoroughly waking in the night atmosphere, asked:

"What's the matter with him? Is he hurt badly?"

"It isn't anything very serious," Hurstwood said solemnly.  Hewas very much disturbed over his own situation, and now that hehad Carrie with him, he only wanted to get safely out of reach ofthe law.  Therefore he was in no mood for anything save suchwords as would further his plans distinctly.

Carrie did not forget that there was something to be settledbetween her and Hurstwood, but the thought was ignored in heragitation.  The one thing was to finish this strange pilgrimage.

"Where is he?"

"Way out on the South Side," said Hurstwood.  "We'll have to takethe train.  It's the quickest way."

Carrie said nothing, and the horse gambolled on.  The weirdnessof the city by night held her attention.  She looked at the longreceding rows of lamps and studied the dark, silent houses.

"How did he hurt himself?" she asked--meaning what was the natureof his injuries.  Hurstwood understood.  He hated to lie any morethan necessary, and yet he wanted no protests until he was out ofdanger.

"I don't know exactly," he said.  "They just called me up to goand get you and bring you out.  They said there wasn't any needfor alarm, but that I shouldn't fail to bring you."

The man's serious manner convinced Carrie, and she became silent,wondering.

Hurstwood examined his watch and urged the man to hurry.  For onein so delicate a position he was exceedingly cool.  He could onlythink of how needful it was to make the train and get quietlyaway.  Carrie seemed quite tractable, and he congratulatedhimself.

In due time they reached the depot, and after helping her out hehanded the man a five-dollar bill and hurried on.

"You wait here," he said to Carrie, when they reached thewaiting-room, "while I get the tickets."

"Have I much time to catch that train for Detroit?" he asked ofthe agent.

"Four minutes," said the latter.

He paid for two tickets as circumspectly as possible.

"Is it far?" said Carrie, as he hurried back.

"Not very," he said.  "We must get right in."

He pushed her before him at the gate, stood between her and theticket man while the latter punched their tickets, so that shecould not see, and then hurried after.

There was a long line of express and passenger cars and one ortwo common day coaches.  As the train had only recently been madeup and few passengers were expected, there were only one or twobrakemen waiting.  They entered the rear day coach and sat down.Almost immediately, "All aboard," resounded faintly from theoutside, and the train started.

Carrie began to think it was a little bit curious--this going toa depot--but said nothing.  The whole incident was so out of thenatural that she did not attach too much weight to anything sheimagined.

"How have you been?" asked Hurstwood gently, for he now breathedeasier.

"Very well," said Carrie, who was so disturbed that she could notbring a proper attitude to bear in the matter.  She was stillnervous to reach Drouet and see what could be the matter.Hurstwood contemplated her and felt this.  He was not disturbedthat it should be so.  He did not trouble because she was movedsympathetically in the matter.  It was one of the qualities inher which pleased him exceedingly.  He was only thinking how heshould explain.  Even this was not the most serious thing in hismind, however.  His own deed and present flight were the greatshadows which weighed upon him.

"What a fool I was to do that," he said over and over.  "What amistake!"

In his sober senses, he could scarcely realise that the thing hadbeen done.  He could not begin to feel that he was a fugitivefrom justice.  He had often read of such things, and had thoughtthey must be terrible, but now that the thing was upon him, heonly sat and looked into the past.  The future was a thing whichconcerned the Canadian line.  He wanted to reach that.  As forthe rest he surveyed his actions for the evening, and countedthem parts of a great mistake.

"Still," he said, "what could I have done?"

Then he would decide to make the best of it, and would begin todo so by starting the whole inquiry over again.  It was afruitless, harassing round, and left him in a queer mood to dealwith the proposition he had in the presence of Carrie.

The train clacked through the yards along the lake front, and ranrather slowly to Twenty-fourth Street.  Brakes and signals werevisible without.  The engine gave short calls with its whistle,and frequently the bell rang.  Several brakemen came through,bearing lanterns.  They were locking the vestibules and puttingthe cars in order for a long run.

Presently it began to gain speed, and Carrie saw the silentstreets flashing by in rapid succession.  The engine also beganits whistle-calls of four parts, with which it signalled dangerto important crossings.

"Is it very far?" asked Carrie."Not so very," said Hurstwood.  He could hardly repress a smileat her simplicity.  He wanted to explain and conciliate her, buthe also wanted to be well out of Chicago.

In the lapse of another half-hour it became apparent to Carriethat it was quite a run to wherever he was taking her, anyhow.

"Is it in Chicago?" she asked nervously.  They were now farbeyond the city limits, and the train was scudding across theIndiana line at a great rate.

"No," he said, "not where we are going."

There was something in the way he said this which aroused her inan instant.

Her pretty brow began to contract.

"We are going to see Charlie, aren't we?" she asked.

He felt that the time was up.  An explanation might as well comenow as later.  Therefore, he shook his head in the most gentlenegative.

"What?" said Carrie.  She was nonplussed at the possibility ofthe errand being different from what she had thought.

He only looked at her in the most kindly and mollifying way.

"Well, where are you taking me, then?" she asked, her voiceshowing the quality of fright.

"I'll tell you, Carrie, if you'll be quiet.  I want you to comealong with me to another city,"

"Oh," said Carrie, her voice rising into a weak cry.  "Let meoff.  I don't want to go with you."

She was quite appalled at the man's audacity.  This was somethingwhich had never for a moment entered her head.  Her one thoughtnow was to get off and away.  If only the flying train could bestopped, the terrible trick would be amended.

She arose and tried to push out into the aisle--anywhere.  Sheknew she had to do something.  Hurstwood laid a gentle hand onher.

"Sit still, Carrie," he said.  "Sit still.  It won't do you anygood to get up here.  Listen to me and I'll tell you what I'lldo.  Wait a moment."

She was pushing at his knees, but he only pulled her back.  Noone saw this little altercation, for very few persons were in thecar, and they were attempting to doze.

"I won't," said Carrie, who was, nevertheless, complying againsther will.  "Let me go," she said.  "How dare you?" and largetears began to gather in her eyes.

Hurstwood was now fully aroused to the immediate difficulty, andceased to think of his own situation.  He must do something withthis girl, or she would cause him trouble.  He tried the art ofpersuasion with all his powers aroused.

"Look here now, Carrie," he said, "you mustn't act this way.  Ididn't mean to hurt your feelings.  I don't want to do anythingto make you feel bad."

"Oh," sobbed Carrie, "oh, oh--oo--o!"

"There, there," he said, "you mustn't cry.  Won't you listen tome? Listen to me a minute, and I'll tell you why I came to dothis thing.  I couldn't help it.  I assure you I couldn't.  Won'tyou listen?"

Her sobs disturbed him so that he was quite sure she did not heara word he said.

"Won't you listen?" he asked.

"No, I won't," said Carrie, flashing up.  "I want you to take meout of this, or I'll tell the conductor.  I won't go with you.It's a shame," and again sobs of fright cut off her desire forexpression.

Hurstwood listened with some astonishment.  He felt that she hadjust cause for feeling as she did, and yet he wished that hecould straighten this thing out quickly.  Shortly the conductorwould come through for the tickets.  He wanted no noise, notrouble of any kind.  Before everything he must make her quiet.

"You couldn't get out until the train stops again," saidHurstwood.  "It won't be very long until we reach anotherstation.  You can get out then if you want to.  I won't stop you.All I want you to do is to listen a moment.  You'll let me tellyou, won't you?"

Carrie seemed not to listen.  She only turned her head toward thewindow, where outside all was black.  The train was speeding withsteady grace across the fields and through patches of wood.  Thelong whistles came with sad, musical effect as the lonelywoodland crossings were approached.

Now the conductor entered the car and took up the one or twofares that had been added at Chicago.  He approached Hurstwood,who handed out the tickets.  Poised as she was to act, Carriemade no move.  She did not look about.

When the conductor had gone again Hurstwood felt relieved.

"You're angry at me because I deceived you," he said.  "I didn'tmean to, Carrie.  As I live I didn't.  I couldn't help it.  Icouldn't stay away from you after the first time I saw you."

He was ignoring the last deception as something that might go bythe board.  He wanted to convince her that his wife could nolonger be a factor in their relationship.  The money he hadstolen he tried to shut out of his mind.

"Don't talk to me," said Carrie, "I hate you.  I want you to goaway from me.  I am going to get out at the very next station."

She was in a tremble of excitement and opposition as she spoke.

"All right," he said, "but you'll hear me out, won't you? Afterall you have said about loving me, you might hear me.  I don'twant to do you any harm.  I'll give you the money to go back withwhen you go.  I merely want to tell you, Carrie.  You can't stopme from loving you, whatever you may think."

He looked at her tenderly, but received no reply."You think I have deceived you badly, but I haven't.  I didn't doit willingly.  I'm through with my wife.  She hasn't any claimson me.  I'll never see her any more.  That's why I'm here to-night.  That's why I came and got you."

"You said Charlie was hurt," said Carrie, savagely.  "Youdeceived me.  You've been deceiving me all the time, and now youwant to force me to run away with you."

She was so excited that she got up and tried to get by him again.He let her, and she took another seat.  Then he followed.

"Don't run away from me, Carrie," he said gently.  "Let meexplain.  If you will only hear me out you will see where Istand.  I tell you my wife is nothing to me.  She hasn't beenanything for years or I wouldn't have ever come near you.  I'mgoing to get a divorce just as soon as I can.  I'll never see heragain.  I'm done with all that.  You're the only person I want.If I can have you I won't ever think of another woman again."

Carrie heard all this in a very ruffled state.  It soundedsincere enough, however, despite all he had done.  There was atenseness in Hurstwood's voice and manner which could but havesome effect.  She did not want anything to do with him.  He wasmarried, he had deceived her once, and now again, and she thoughthim terrible.  Still there is something in such daring and powerwhich is fascinating to a woman, especially if she can be made tofeel that it is all prompted by love of her.

The progress of the train was having a great deal to do with thesolution of this difficult situation.  The speeding wheels anddisappearing country put Chicago farther and farther behind.Carrie could feel that she was being borne a long distance off--that the engine was making an almost through run to some distantcity.  She felt at times as if she could cry out and make such arow that some one would come to her aid; at other times it seemedan almost useless thing--so far was she from any aid, no matterwhat she did.  All the while Hurstwood was endeavouring toformulate his plea in such a way that it would strike home andbring her into sympathy with him.

"I was simply put where I didn't know what else to do."

Carrie deigned no suggestion of hearing this.

"When I say you wouldn't come unless I could marry you, I decidedto put everything else behind me and get you to come away withme.  I'm going off now to another city.  I want to go to Montrealfor a while, and then anywhere you want to.  We'll go and live inNew York, if you say."

"I'll not have anything to do with you," said Carrie.  "I want toget off this train.  Where are we going?"

"To Detroit," said Hurstwood.

"Oh!" said Carrie, in a burst of anguish.  So distant anddefinite a point seemed to increase the difficulty.

"Won't you come along with me?" he said, as if there was greatdanger that she would not.  "You won't need to do anything buttravel with me.  I'll not trouble you in any way.  You can seeMontreal and New York, and then if you don't want to stay you cango back.  It will be better than trying to go back to-night."

The first gleam of fairness shone in this proposition for Carrie.It seemed a plausible thing to do, much as she feared hisopposition if she tried to carry it out.  Montreal and New York!Even now she was speeding toward those great, strange lands, andcould see them if she liked.  She thought, but made no sign.

Hurstwood thought he saw a shade of compliance in this.  Heredoubled his ardour.

"Think," he said, "what I've given up.  I can't go back toChicago any more.  I've got to stay away and live alone now, ifyou don't come with me.  You won't go back on me entirely, willyou, Carrie?"

"I don't want you to talk to me," she answered forcibly.

Hurstwood kept silent for a while.

Carrie felt the train to be slowing down.  It was the moment toact if she was to act at all.  She stirred uneasily.

"Don't think of going, Carrie," he said.  "If you ever cared forme at all, come along and let's start right.  I'll do whateveryou say.  I'll marry you, or I'll let you go back.  Give yourselftime to think it over.  I wouldn't have wanted you to come if Ihadn't loved you.  I tell you, Carrie, before God, I can't livewithout you.  I won't!"

There was the tensity of fierceness in the man's plea whichappealed deeply to her sympathies.  It was a dissolving firewhich was actuating him now.  He was loving her too intensely tothink of giving her up in this, his hour of distress.  Heclutched her hand nervously and pressed it with all the force ofan appeal.

The train was now all but stopped.  It was running by some carson a side track.  Everything outside was dark and dreary.  A fewsprinkles on the window began to indicate that it was raining.Carrie hung in a quandary, balancing between decision andhelplessness.  Now the train stopped, and she was listening tohis plea.  The engine backed a few feet and all was still.

She wavered, totally unable to make a move.  Minute after minuteslipped by and still she hesitated, he pleading.

"Will you let me come back if I want to?" she asked, as if shenow had the upper hand and her companion was utterly subdued.

"Of course," he answered, "you know I will."

Carrie only listened as one who has granted a temporary amnesty.She began to feel as if the matter were in her hands entirely.

The train was again in rapid motion.  Hurstwood changed thesubject.

"Aren't you very tired?" he said.

"No," she answered.

"Won't you let me get you a berth in the sleeper?"

She shook her head, though for all her distress and his trickeryshe was beginning to notice what she had always felt--histhoughtfulness.

"Oh, yes," he said, "you will feel so much better."

She shook her head.

"Let me fix my coat for you, anyway," and he arose and arrangedhis light coat in a comfortable position to receive her head.

"There," he said tenderly, "now see if you can't rest a little."He could have kissed her for her compliance.  He took his seatbeside her and thought a moment.

"I believe we're in for a heavy rain," he said.

"So it looks," said Carrie, whose nerves were quieting under thesound of the rain drops, driven by a gusty wind, as the trainswept on frantically through the shadow to a newer world.

The fact that he had in a measure mollified Carrie was a sourceof satisfaction to Hurstwood, but it furnished only the mosttemporary relief.  Now that her opposition was out of the way, hehad all of his time to devote to the consideration of his ownerror.

His condition was bitter in the extreme, for he did not want themiserable sum he had stolen.  He did not want to be a thief.That sum or any other could never compensate for the state whichhe had thus foolishly doffed.  It could not give him back hishost of friends, his name, his house and family, nor Carrie, ashe had meant to have her.  He was shut out from Chicago--from hiseasy, comfortable state.  He had robbed himself of his dignity,his merry meetings, his pleasant evenings.  And for what? Themore he thought of it the more unbearable it became.  He began tothink that he would try and restore himself to his old state.  Hewould return the miserable thievings of the night and explain.Perhaps Moy would understand.  Perhaps they would forgive him andlet him come back.

By noontime the train rolled into Detroit and he began to feelexceedingly nervous.  The police must be on his track by now.They had probably notified all the police of the big cities, anddetectives would be watching for him.  He remembered instances inwhich defaulters had been captured.  Consequently, he breathedheavily and paled somewhat.  His hands felt as if they must havesomething to do.  He simulated interest in several scenes withoutwhich he did not feel.  He repeatedly beat his foot upon thefloor.

Carrie noticed his agitation, but said nothing.  She had no ideawhat it meant or that it was important.

He wondered now why he had not asked whether this train went onthrough to Montreal or some Canadian point.  Perhaps he couldhave saved time.  He jumped up and sought the conductor.

"Does any part of this train go to Montreal?" he asked.

"Yes, the next sleeper back does."

He would have asked more, but it did not seem wise, so he decidedto inquire at the depot.

The train rolled into the yards, clanging and puffing.

"I think we had better go right on through to Montreal," he saidto Carrie.  "I'll see what the connections are when we get off."

He was exceedingly nervous, but did his best to put on a calmexterior.  Carrie only looked at him with large, troubled eyes.She was drifting mentally, unable to say to herself what to do.

The train stopped and Hurstwood led the way out.  He lookedwarily around him, pretending to look after Carrie.  Seeingnothing that indicated studied observation, he made his way tothe ticket office.

"The next train for Montreal leaves when?" he asked.

"In twenty minutes," said the man.

He bought two tickets and Pullman berths.  Then he hastened backto Carrie.

"We go right out again," he said, scarcely noticing that Carrielooked tired and weary.

"I wish I was out of all this," she exclaimed gloomily.

"You'll feel better when we reach Montreal," he said.

"I haven't an earthly thing with me," said Carrie; "not even ahandkerchief."

"You can buy all you want as soon as you get there, dearest," heexplained.  "You can call in a dressmaker."

Now the crier called the train ready and they got on.  Hurstwoodbreathed a sigh of relief as it started.  There was a short runto the river, and there they were ferried over.  They had barelypulled the train off the ferry-boat when he settled back with asigh.

"It won't be so very long now," he said, remembering her in hisrelief.  "We get there the first thing in the morning."

Carrie scarcely deigned to reply.

"I'll see if there is a dining-car," he added.  "I'm hungry."

Chapter XXIX

THE SOLACE OF TRAVEL--THE BOATS OF THE SEA

To the untravelled, territory other than their own familiar heathis invariably fascinating.  Next to love, it is the one thingwhich solaces and delights.  Things new are too important to beneglected, and mind, which is a mere reflection of sensoryimpressions, succumbs to the flood of objects.  Thus lovers areforgotten, sorrows laid aside, death hidden from view.  There isa world of accumulated feeling back of the trite dramaticexpression--"I am going away."

As Carrie looked out upon the flying scenery she almost forgotthat she had been tricked into this long journey against her willand that she was without the necessary apparel for travelling.She quite forgot Hurstwood's presence at times, and looked awayto homely farmhouses and cosey cottages in villages withwondering eyes.  It was an interesting world to her.  Her lifehad just begun.  She did not feel herself defeated at all.Neither was she blasted in hope.  The great city held much.Possibly she would come out of bondage into freedom--who knows?Perhaps she would be happy.  These thoughts raised her above thelevel of erring.  She was saved in that she was hopeful.

The following morning the train pulled safely into Montreal andthey stepped down, Hurstwood glad to be out of danger, Carriewondering at the novel atmosphere of the northern city.  Longbefore, Hurstwood had been here, and now he remembered the nameof the hotel at which he had stopped.  As they came out of themain entrance of the depot he heard it called anew by a busman.

"We'll go right up and get rooms," he said.

At the clerk's office Hurstwood swung the register about whilethe clerk came forward.  He was thinking what name he would putdown.  With the latter before him he found no time forhesitation.  A name he had seen out of the car window cameswiftly to him.  It was pleasing enough.  With an easy hand hewrote, "G. W. Murdock and wife." It was the largest concession tonecessity he felt like making.  His initials he could not spare.

When they were shown their room Carrie saw at once that he hadsecured her a lovely chamber.

"You have a bath there," said he.  "Now you can clean up when youget ready."

Carrie went over and looked out the window, while Hurstwoodlooked at himself in the glass.  He felt dusty and unclean.  Hehad no trunk, no change of linen, not even a hair-brush.

"I'll ring for soap and towels," he said, "and send you up ahair-brush.  Then you can bathe and get ready for breakfast.I'll go for a shave and come back and get you, and then we'll goout and look for some clothes for you."

He smiled good-naturedly as he said this.

"All right," said Carrie.

She sat down in one of the rocking-chairs, while Hurstwood waitedfor the boy, who soon knocked.

"Soap, towels, and a pitcher of ice-water."

"Yes, sir."

"I'll go now," he said to Carrie, coming toward her and holdingout his hands, but she did not move to take them.

"You're not mad at me, are you?" he asked softly.

"Oh, no!" she answered, rather indifferently.

"Don't you care for me at all?"

She made no answer, but looked steadily toward the window.

"Don't you think you could love me a little?" he pleaded, takingone of her hands, which she endeavoured to draw away.  "You oncesaid you did."

"What made you deceive me so?" asked Carrie.

"I couldn't help it," he said, "I wanted you too much."

"You didn't have any right to want me," she answered, strikingcleanly home.

"Oh, well, Carrie," he answered, "here I am.  It's too late now.Won't you try and care for me a little?"

He looked rather worsted in thought as he stood before her.

She shook her head negatively.

"Let me start all over again.  Be my wife from to-day on."

Carrie rose up as if to step away, he holding her hand.  Now heslipped his arm about her and she struggled, but in vain.  Heheld her quite close.  Instantly there flamed up in his body theall compelling desire.  His affection took an ardent form.

"Let me go," said Carrie, who was folded close to him.

"Won't you love me?" he said.  "Won't you be mine from now on?"

Carrie had never been ill-disposed toward him.  Only a momentbefore she had been listening with some complacency, rememberingher old affection for him.  He was so handsome, so daring!

Now, however, this feeling had changed to one of opposition,which rose feebly.  It mastered her for a moment, and then, heldclose as she was, began to wane.  Something else in her spoke.This man, to whose bosom she was being pressed, was strong; hewas passionate, he loved her, and she was alone.  If she did notturn to him--accept of his love--where else might she go? Herresistance half dissolved in the flood of his strong feeling.

She found him lifting her head and looking into her eyes.  Whatmagnetism there was she could never know.  His many sins,however, were for the moment all forgotten.

He pressed her closer and kissed her, and she felt that furtheropposition was useless.

"Will you marry me?" she asked, forgetting how.

"This very day," he said, with all delight.

Now the hall-boy pounded on the door and he released his holdupon her regretfully.

"You get ready now, will you," he said, "at once?"

"Yes," she answered.

"I'll be back in three-quarters of an hour."

Carrie, flushed and excited, moved away as he admitted the boy.

Below stairs, he halted in the lobby to look for a barber shop.For the moment, he was in fine feather.  His recent victory overCarrie seemed to atone for much he had endured during the lastfew days.  Life seemed worth fighting for.  This eastward flightfrom all things customary and attached seemed as if it might havehappiness in store.  The storm showed a rainbow at the end ofwhich might be a pot of gold.

He was about to cross to a little red-and-white striped bar whichwas fastened up beside a door when a voice greeted himfamiliarly.  Instantly his heart sank."Why, hello, George, old man!" said the voice.  "What are youdoing down here?"

Hurstwood was already confronted, and recognised his friendKenny, the stock-broker.

"Just attending to a little private matter," he answered, hismind working like a key-board of a telephone station.  This manevidently did not know--he had not read the papers.

"Well, it seems strange to see you way up here," said Mr. Kennygenially.  "Stopping here?"

"Yes," said Hurstwood uneasily, thinking of his handwriting onthe register.

"Going to be in town long?"

"No, only a day or so."

"Is that so? Had your breakfast?"

"Yes," said Hurstwood, lying blandly.  "I'm just going for ashave."

"Won't you come have a drink?"

"Not until afterwards," said the ex-manager.  "I'll see youlater.  Are you stopping here?"

"Yes," said Mr. Kenny, and then, turning the word again added:"How are things out in Chicago?"

"About the same as usual," said Hurstwood, smiling genially.

"Wife with you?"

"No."

"Well, I must see more of you to-day.  I'm just going in here forbreakfast.  Come in when you're through."

"I will," said Hurstwood, moving away.  The whole conversationwas a trial to him.  It seemed to add complications with veryword.  This man called up a thousand memories.  He representedeverything he had left.  Chicago, his wife, the elegant resort--all these were in his greeting and inquiries.  And here he was inthis same hotel expecting to confer with him, unquestionablywaiting to have a good time with him.  All at once the Chicagopapers would arrive.  The local papers would have accounts inthem this very day.  He forgot his triumph with Carrie in thepossibility of soon being known for what he was, in this man'seyes, a safe-breaker.  He could have groaned as he went into thebarber shop.  He decided to escape and seek a more secludedhotel.

Accordingly, when he came out he was glad to see the lobby clear,and hastened toward the stairs.  He would get Carrie and go outby the ladies' entrance.  They would have breakfast in some moreinconspicuous place.

Across the lobby, however, another individual was surveying him.He was of a commonplace Irish type, small of stature, cheaplydressed, and with a head that seemed a smaller edition of somehuge ward politician's.  This individual had been evidentlytalking with the clerk, but now he surveyed the ex-managerkeenly.

Hurstwood felt the long-range examination and recognised thetype.  Instinctively he felt that the man was a detective--thathe was being watched.  He hurried across, pretending not tonotice, but in his mind was a world of thoughts.  What wouldhappen now? What could these people do? He began to troubleconcerning the extradition laws.  He did not understand themabsolutely.  Perhaps he could be arrested.  Oh, if Carrie shouldfind out! Montreal was too warm for him.  He began to long to beout of it.

Carrie had bathed and was waiting when he arrived.  She lookedrefreshed--more delightful than ever, but reserved.  Since he hadgone she had resumed somewhat of her cold attitude towards him.Love was not blazing in her heart.  He felt it, and his troublesseemed increased.  He could not take her in his arms; he did noteven try.  Something about her forbade it.  In part his opinionwas the result of his own experiences and reflections belowstairs.

"You're ready, are you?" he said kindly.

"Yes," she answered.

"We'll go out for breakfast.  This place down here doesn't appealto me very much."

"All right," said Carrie.

They went out, and at the corner the commonplace Irish individualwas standing, eyeing him.  Hurstwood could scarcely refrain fromshowing that he knew of this chap's presence.  The insolence inthe fellow's eye was galling.  Still they passed, and heexplained to Carrie concerning the city.  Another restaurant wasnot long in showing itself, and here they entered.

"What a queer town this is," said Carrie, who marvelled at itsolely because it was not like Chicago.

"It Isn't as lively as Chicago," said Hurstwood.  "Don't you likeit?"

"No," said Carrie, whose feelings were already localised in thegreat Western city.

"Well, it isn't as interesting," said Hurstwood.

"What's here?" asked Carrie, wondering at his choosing to visitthis town.

"Nothing much," returned Hurstwood.  "It's quite a resort.There's some pretty scenery about here."

Carrie listened, but with a feeling of unrest.  There was muchabout her situation which destroyed the possibility ofappreciation.

"We won't stay here long," said Hurstwood, who was now reallyglad to note her dissatisfaction.  "You pick out your clothes assoon as breakfast is over and we'll run down to New York soon.You'll like that.  It's a lot more like a city than any placeoutside Chicago."

He was really planning to slip out and away.  He would see whatthese detectives would do--what move his employers at Chicagowould make--then he would slip away--down to New York, where itwas easy to hide.  He knew enough about that city to know thatits mysteries and possibilities of mystification were infinite.

The more he thought, however, the more wretched his situationbecame.  He saw that getting here did not exactly clear up theground.  The firm would probably employ detectives to watch him--Pinkerton men or agents of Mooney and Boland.  They might arresthim the moment he tried to leave Canada.  So he might becompelled to remain here months, and in what a state!

Back at the hotel Hurstwood was anxious and yet fearful to seethe morning papers.  He wanted to know how far the news of hiscriminal deed had spread.  So he told Carrie he would be up in afew moments, and went to secure and scan the dailies.  Nofamiliar or suspicious faces were about, and yet he did not likereading in the lobby, so he sought the main parlour on the floorabove and, seated by a window there, looked them over.  Verylittle was given to his crime, but it was there, several "sticks"in all, among all the riffraff of telegraphed murders, accidents,marriages, and other news.  He wished, half sadly, that he couldundo it all.  Every moment of his time in this far-off abode ofsafety but added to his feeling that he had made a great mistake.There could have been an easier way out if he had only known.

He left the papers before going to the room, thinking thus tokeep them out of the hands of Carrie.

"Well, how are you feeling?" he asked of her.  She was engaged inlooking out of the window.

"Oh, all right," she answered.

He came over, and was about to begin a conversation with her,when a knock came at their door.

"Maybe it's one of my parcels," said Carrie.

Hurstwood opened the door, outside of which stood the individualwhom he had so thoroughly suspected.

"You're Mr. Hurstwood, are you?" said the latter, with a volumeof affected shrewdness and assurance.

"Yes," said Hurstwood calmly.  He knew the type so thoroughlythat some of his old familiar indifference to it returned.  Suchmen as these were of the lowest stratum welcomed at the resort.He stepped out and closed the door.

"Well, you know what I am here for, don't you?" said the manconfidentially.

"I can guess," said Hurstwood softly.

"Well, do you intend to try and keep the money?"

"That's my affair," said Hurstwood grimly.

"You can't do it, you know," said the detective, eyeing himcoolly.

"Look here, my man," said Hurstwood authoritatively, "you don'tunderstand anything about this case, and I can't explain to you.Whatever I intend to do I'll do without advice from the outside.You'll have to excuse me.""Well, now, there's no use of your talking that way," said theman, "when you're in the hands of the police.  We can make a lotof trouble for you if we want to.  You're not registered right inthis house, you haven't got your wife with you, and thenewspapers don't know you're here yet.  You might as well bereasonable."

"What do you want to know?" asked Hurstwood.

"Whether you're going to send back that money or not."

Hurstwood paused and studied the floor.

"There's no use explaining to you about this," he said at last."There's no use of your asking me.  I'm no fool, you know.  Iknow just what you can do and what you can't.  You can create alot of trouble if you want to.  I know that all right, but itwon't help you to get the money.  Now, I've made up my mind whatto do.  I've already written Fitzgerald and Moy, so there'snothing I can say.  You wait until you hear more from them."

All the time he had been talking he had been moving away from thedoor, down the corridor, out of the hearing of Carrie.  They werenow near the end where the corridor opened into the large generalparlour.

"You won't give it up?" said the man.

The words irritated Hurstwood greatly.  Hot blood poured into hisbrain.  Many thoughts formulated themselves.  He was no thief.He didn't want the money.  If he could only explain to Fitzgeraldand Moy, maybe it would be all right again.

"See here," he said, "there's no use my talking about this atall.  I respect your power all right, but I'll have to deal withthe people who know."

"Well, you can't get out of Canada with it," said the man.

"I don't want to get out," said Hurstwood.  "When I get readythere'll be nothing to stop me for."

He turned back, and the detective watched him closely.  It seemedan intolerable thing.  Still he went on and into the room.

"Who was it?" asked Carrie.

"A friend of mine from Chicago."

The whole of this conversation was such a shock that, coming asit did after all the other worry of the past week, it sufficed toinduce a deep gloom and moral revulsion in Hurstwood.  What hurthim most was the fact that he was being pursued as a thief.  Hebegan to see the nature of that social injustice which sees butone side--often but a single point in a long tragedy.  All thenewspapers noted but one thing, his taking the money.  How andwherefore were but indifferently dealt with.  All thecomplications which led up to it were unknown.  He was accusedwithout being understood.

Sitting in his room with Carrie the same day, he decided to sendthe money back.  He would write Fitzgerald and Moy, explain all,and then send it by express.  Maybe they would forgive him.Perhaps they would ask him back.  He would make good the falsestatement he had made about writing them.  Then he would leavethis peculiar town.

For an hour he thought over this plausible statement of thetangle.  He wanted to tell them about his wife, but couldn't.  Hefinally narrowed it down to an assertion that he was light-headedfrom entertaining friends, had found the safe open, and havinggone so far as to take the money out, had accidentally closed it.This act he regretted very much.  He was sorry he had put them toso much trouble.  He would undo what he could by sending themoney back--the major portion of it.  The remainder he would payup as soon as he could.  Was there any possibility of his beingrestored? This he only hinted at.

The troubled state of the man's mind may be judged by the veryconstruction of this letter.  For the nonce he forgot what apainful thing it would be to resume his old place, even if itwere given him.  He forgot that he had severed himself from thepast as by a sword, and that if he did manage to in some wayreunite himself with it, the jagged line of separation andreunion would always show.  He was always forgetting something--his wife, Carrie, his need of money, present situation, orsomething--and so did not reason clearly.  Nevertheless, he sentthe letter, waiting a reply before sending the money.

Meanwhile, he accepted his present situation with Carrie, gettingwhat joy out of it he could.

Out came the sun by noon, and poured a golden flood through theiropen windows.  Sparrows were twittering.  There were laughter andsong in the air.  Hurstwood could not keep his eyes from Carrie.She seemed the one ray of sunshine in all his trouble.  Oh, ifshe would only love him wholly--only throw her arms around him inthe blissful spirit in which he had seen her in the little parkin Chicago--how happy he would be! It would repay him; it wouldshow him that he had not lost all.  He would not care.

"Carrie," he said, getting up once and coming over to her, "areyou going to stay with me from now on?"

She looked at him quizzically, but melted with sympathy as thevalue of the look upon his face forced itself upon her.  It waslove now, keen and strong--love enhanced by difficulty and worry.She could not help smiling.

"Let me be everything to you from now on," he said.  "Don't makeme worry any more.  I'll be true to you.  We'll go to New Yorkand get a nice flat.  I'll go into business again, and we'll behappy.  Won't you be mine?"

Carrie listened quite solemnly.  There was no great passion inher, but the drift of things and this man's proximity created asemblance of affection.  She felt rather sorry for him--a sorrowborn of what had only recently been a great admiration.  Truelove she had never felt for him.  She would have known as much ifshe could have analysed her feelings, but this thing which shenow felt aroused by his great feeling broke down the barriersbetween them.

"You'll stay with me, won't you?" he asked.

"Yes," she said, nodding her head.

He gathered her to himself, imprinting kisses upon her lips andcheeks.

"You must marry me, though," she said."I'll get a license to-day," he answered.

"How?" she asked.

"Under a new name," he answered.  "I'll take a new name and livea new life.  From now on I'm Murdock."

"Oh, don't take that name," said Carrie.

"Why not?" he said.

"I don't like it."

"Well, what shall I take?" he asked.

"Oh, anything, only don't take that."

He thought a while, still keeping his arms about her, and thensaid:

"How would Wheeler do?"

"That's all right," said Carrie.

"Well, then, Wheeler," he said.  "I'll get the license thisafternoon."

They were married by a Baptist minister, the first divine theyfound convenient.

At last the Chicago firm answered.  It was by Mr. Moy'sdictation.  He was astonished that Hurstwood had done this; verysorry that it had come about as it had.  If the money werereturned, they would not trouble to prosecute him, as they reallybore him no ill-will.  As for his returning, or their restoringhim to his former position, they had not quite decided what theeffect of it would be.  They would think it over and correspondwith him later, possibly, after a little time, and so on.

The sum and substance of it was that there was no hope, and theywanted the money with the least trouble possible.  Hurstwood readhis doom.  He decided to pay $9,500 to the agent whom they saidthey would send, keeping $1,300 for his own use.  He telegraphedhis acquiescence, explained to the representative who called atthe hotel the same day, took a certificate of payment, and toldCarrie to pack her trunk.  He was slightly depressed over thisnewest move at the time he began to make it, but eventuallyrestored himself.  He feared that even yet he might be seized andtaken back, so he tried to conceal his movements, but it wasscarcely possible.  He ordered Carrie's trunk sent to the depot,where he had it sent by express to New York.  No one seemed to beobserving him, but he left at night.  He was greatly agitatedlest at the first station across the border or at the depot inNew York there should be waiting for him an officer of the law.

Carrie, ignorant of his theft and his fears, enjoyed the entryinto the latter city in the morning.  The round green hillssentinelling the broad, expansive bosom of the Hudson held herattention by their beauty as the train followed the line of thestream.  She had heard of the Hudson River, the great city of NewYork, and now she looked out, filling her mind with the wonder ofit.

As the train turned east at Spuyten Duyvil and followed the eastbank of the Harlem River, Hurstwood nervously called herattention to the fact that they were on the edge of the city.After her experience with Chicago, she expected long lines ofcars--a great highway of tracks--and noted the difference.  Thesight of a few boats in the Harlem and more in the East Rivertickled her young heart.  It was the first sign of the great sea.Next came a plain street with five-story brick flats, and thenthe train plunged into the tunnel.

"Grand Central Station!" called the trainman, as, after a fewminutes of darkness and smoke, daylight reappeared.  Hurstwoodarose and gathered up his small grip.  He was screwed up to thehighest tension.  With Carrie he waited at the door and thendismounted.  No one approached him, but he glanced furtively toand fro as he made for the street entrance.  So excited was hethat he forgot all about Carrie, who fell behind, wondering athis self-absorption.  As he passed through the depot proper thestrain reached its climax and began to wane.  All at once he wason the sidewalk, and none but cabmen hailed him.  He heaved agreat breath and turned, remembering Carrie.

"I thought you were going to run off and leave me," she said.

"I was trying to remember which car takes us to the Gilsey," heanswered.

Carrie hardly heard him, so interested was she in the busy scene.

"How large is New York?" she asked.

"Oh a million or more," said Hurstwood.

He looked around and hailed a cab, but he did so in a changedway.

For the first time in years the thought that he must count theselittle expenses flashed through his mind.  It was a disagreeablething.

He decided he would lose no time living in hotels but would renta flat.  Accordingly he told Carrie, and she agreed.

"We'll look to-day, if you want to," she said.

Suddenly he thought of his experience in Montreal.  At the moreimportant hotels he would be certain to meet Chicagoans whom heknew.  He stood up and spoke to the driver.

"Take me to the Belford," he said, knowing it to be lessfrequented by those whom he knew.  Then he sat down.

"Where is the residence part?" asked Carrie, who did not take thetall five-story walls on either hand to be the abodes offamilies.

"Everywhere," said Hurstwood, who knew the city fairly well."There are no lawns in New York.  All these are houses."

"Well, then, I don't like it," said Carrie, who was coming tohave a few opinions of her own.

Chapter XXX

THE KINGDOM OF GREATNESS--THE PILGRIM A DREAM

Whatever a man like Hurstwood could be in Chicago, it is veryevident that he would be but an inconspicuous drop in an oceanlike New York.  In Chicago, whose population still ranged about500,000, millionaires were not numerous.  The rich had not becomeso conspicuously rich as to drown all moderate incomes inobscurity.  The attention of the inhabitants was not sodistracted by local celebrities in the dramatic, artistic,social, and religious fields as to shut the well-positioned manfrom view.  In Chicago the two roads to distinction were politicsand trade.  In New York the roads were any one of a half-hundred,and each had been diligently pursued by hundreds, so thatcelebrities were numerous.  The sea was already full of whales.A common fish must needs disappear wholly from view--remainunseen.  In other words, Hurstwood was nothing.

There is a more subtle result of such a situation as this, which,though not always taken into account, produces the tragedies ofthe world.  The great create an atmosphere which reacts badlyupon the small.  This atmosphere is easily and quickly felt.Walk among the magnificent residences, the splendid equipages,the gilded shops, restaurants, resorts of all kinds; scent theflowers, the silks, the wines; drink of the laughter springingfrom the soul of luxurious content, of the glances which gleamlike light from defiant spears; feel the quality of the smileswhich cut like glistening swords and of strides born of place,and you shall know of what is the atmosphere of the high andmighty.  Little use to argue that of such is not the kingdom ofgreatness, but so long as the world is attracted by this and thehuman heart views this as the one desirable realm which it mustattain, so long, to that heart, will this remain the realm ofgreatness.  So long, also, will the atmosphere of this realm workits desperate results in the soul of man.  It is like a chemicalreagent.  One day of it, like one drop of the other, will soaffect and discolour the views, the aims, the desire of the mind,that it will thereafter remain forever dyed.  A day of it to theuntried mind is like opium to the untried body.  A craving is setup which, if gratified, shall eternally result in dreams anddeath.  Aye! dreams unfulfilled--gnawing, luring, idle phantomswhich beckon and lead, beckon and lead, until death anddissolution dissolve their power and restore us blind to nature'sheart.

A man of Hurstwood's age and temperament is not subject to theillusions and burning desires of youth, but neither has he thestrength of hope which gushes as a fountain in the heart ofyouth.  Such an atmosphere could not incite in him the cravingsof a boy of eighteen, but in so far as they were excited, thelack of hope made them proportionately bitter.  He could not failto notice the signs of affluence and luxury on every hand.  Hehad been to New York before and knew the resources of its folly.In part it was an awesome place to him, for here gathered allthat he most respected on this earth--wealth, place, and fame.The majority of the celebrities with whom he had tipped glassesin his day as manager hailed from this self-centred and populousspot.  The most inviting stories of pleasure and luxury had beentold of places and individuals here.  He knew it to be true thatunconsciously he was brushing elbows with fortune the livelongday; that a hundred or five hundred thousand gave no one theprivilege of living more than comfortably in so wealthy a place.Fashion and pomp required more ample sums, so that the poor manwas nowhere.  All this he realised, now quite sharply, as hefaced the city, cut off from his friends, despoiled of his modestfortune, and even his name, and forced to begin the battle forplace and comfort all over again.  He was not old, but he was notso dull but that he could feel he soon would be.  Of a sudden,then, this show of fine clothes, place, and power took onpeculiar significance.  It was emphasised by contrast with hisown distressing state.

And it was distressing.  He soon found that freedom from fear ofarrest was not the sine qua non of his existence.  That dangerdissolved, the next necessity became the grievous thing.  Thepaltry sum of thirteen hundred and some odd dollars set againstthe need of rent, clothing, food, and pleasure for years to comewas a spectacle little calculated to induce peace of mind in onewho had been accustomed to spend five times that sum in thecourse of a year.  He thought upon the subject rather activelythe first few days he was in New York, and decided that he mustact quickly.  As a consequence, he consulted the businessopportunities advertised in the morning papers and beganinvestigations on his own account.

That was not before he had become settled, however.  Carrie andhe went looking for a flat, as arranged, and found one inSeventy-eighth Street near Amsterdam Avenue.  It was a five-storybuilding, and their flat was on the third floor.  Owing to thefact that the street was not yet built up solidly, it waspossible to see east to the green tops of the trees in CentralPark and west to the broad waters of the Hudson, a glimpse ofwhich was to be had out of the west windows.  For the privilegeof six rooms and a bath, running in a straight line, they werecompelled to pay thirty-five dollars a month--an average, and yetexorbitant, rent for a home at the time.  Carrie noticed thedifference between the size of the rooms here and in Chicago andmentioned it.

"You'll not find anything better, dear," said Hurstwood, "unlessyou go into one of the old-fashioned houses, and then you won'thave any of these conveniences."

Carrie picked out the new abode because of its newness and brightwood-work.  It was one of the very new ones supplied with steamheat, which was a great advantage.  The stationary range, hot andcold water, dumb-waiter, speaking tubes, and call-bell for thejanitor pleased her very much.  She had enough of the instinctsof a housewife to take great satisfaction in these things.

Hurstwood made arrangements with one of the instalment houseswhereby they furnished the flat complete and accepted fiftydollars down and ten dollars a month.  He then had a littleplate, bearing the name G. W. Wheeler, made, which he placed onhis letter-box in the hall.  It sounded exceedingly odd to Carrieto be called Mrs. Wheeler by the janitor, but in time she becameused to it and looked upon the name as her own.

These house details settled, Hurstwood visited some of theadvertised opportunities to purchase an interest in someflourishing down-town bar.  After the palatial resort in AdamsStreet, he could not stomach the commonplace saloons which hefound advertised.  He lost a number of days looking up these andfinding them disagreeable.  He did, however, gain considerableknowledge by talking, for he discovered the influence of TammanyHall and the value of standing in with the police.  The mostprofitable and flourishing places he found to be those whichconducted anything but a legitimate business, such as thatcontrolled by Fitzgerald and Moy.  Elegant back rooms and privatedrinking booths on the second floor were usually adjuncts of veryprofitable places.  He saw by portly keepers, whose shirt frontsshone with large diamonds, and whose clothes were properly cut,that the liquor business here, as elsewhere, yielded the samegolden profit.At last he found an individual who had a resort in Warren Street,which seemed an excellent venture.  It was fairly well-appearingand susceptible of improvement.  The owner claimed the businessto be excellent, and it certainly looked so.

"We deal with a very good class of people," he told Hurstwood."Merchants, salesmen, and professionals.  It's a well-dressedclass.  No bums.  We don't allow 'em in the place."

Hurstwood listened to the cash-register ring, and watched thetrade for a while.

"It's profitable enough for two, is it?" he asked.

"You can see for yourself if you're any judge of the liquortrade," said the owner.  "This is only one of the two places Ihave.  The other is down in Nassau Street.  I can't tend to themboth alone.  If I had some one who knew the business thoroughly Iwouldn't mind sharing with him in this one and letting him manageit."

"I've had experience enough," said Hurstwood blandly, but he felta little diffident about referring to Fitzgerald and Moy.

"Well, you can suit yourself, Mr. Wheeler," said the proprietor.

He only offered a third interest in the stock, fixtures, andgood-will, and this in return for a thousand dollars andmanagerial ability on the part of the one who should come in.There was no property involved, because the owner of the saloonmerely rented from an estate.

The offer was genuine enough, but it was a question withHurstwood whether a third interest in that locality could be madeto yield one hundred and fifty dollars a month, which he figuredhe must have in order to meet the ordinary family expenses and becomfortable.  It was not the time, however, after many failuresto find what he wanted, to hesitate.  It looked as though a thirdwould pay a hundred a month now.  By judicious management andimprovement, it might be made to pay more.  Accordingly he agreedto enter into partnership, and made over his thousand dollars,preparing to enter the next day.

His first inclination was to be elated, and he confided to Carriethat he thought he had made an excellent arrangement.  Time,however, introduced food for reflection.  He found his partner tobe very disagreeable.  Frequently he was the worse for liquor,which made him surly.  This was the last thing which Hurstwoodwas used to in business.  Besides, the business varied.  It wasnothing like the class of patronage which he had enjoyed inChicago.  He found that it would take a long time to makefriends.  These people hurried in and out without seeking thepleasures of friendship.  It was no gathering or lounging place.Whole days and weeks passed without one such hearty greeting ashe had been wont to enjoy every day in Chicago.

For another thing, Hurstwood missed the celebrities--those well-dressed, elite individuals who lend grace to the average bars andbring news from far-off and exclusive circles.  He did not seeone such in a month.  Evenings, when still at his post, he wouldoccasionally read in the evening papers incidents concerningcelebrities whom he knew--whom he had drunk a glass with many atime.  They would visit a bar like Fitzgerald and Moy's inChicago, or the Hoffman House, uptown, but he knew that he wouldnever see them down here.Again, the business did not pay as well as he thought.  Itincreased a little, but he found he would have to watch hishousehold expenses, which was humiliating.

In the very beginning it was a delight to go home late at night,as he did, and find Carrie.  He managed to run up and take dinnerwith her between six and seven, and to remain home until nineo'clock in the morning, but the novelty of this waned after atime, and he began to feel the drag of his duties.

The first month had scarcely passed before Carrie said in a verynatural way: "I think I'll go down this week and buy a dress.'

"What kind?" said Hurstwood.

"Oh, something for street wear."

"All right," he answered, smiling, although he noted mentallythat it would be more agreeable to his finances if she didn't.Nothing was said about it the next day, but the following morninghe asked:

"Have you done anything about your dress?"

"Not yet," said Carrie.

He paused a few moments, as if in thought, and then said:

"Would you mind putting it off a few days?"

"No," replied Carrie, who did not catch the drift of his remarks.She had never thought of him in connection with money troublesbefore.  "Why?"

"Well, I'll tell you," said Hurstwood.  "This investment of mineis taking a lot of money just now.  I expect to get it all backshortly, but just at present I am running close."

"Oh!" answered Carrie.  "Why, certainly, dear.  Why didn't youtell me before?"

"It wasn't necessary," said Hurstwood.

For all her acquiescence, there was something about the wayHurstwood spoke which reminded Carrie of Drouet and his littledeal which he was always about to put through.  It was only thethought of a second, but it was a beginning.  It was somethingnew in her thinking of Hurstwood.

Other things followed from time to time, little things of thesame sort, which in their cumulative effect were eventually equalto a full revelation.  Carrie was not dull by any means.  Twopersons cannot long dwell together without coming to anunderstanding of one another.  The mental difficulties of anindividual reveal themselves whether he voluntarily confessesthem or not.  Trouble gets in the air and contributes gloom,which speaks for itself.  Hurstwood dressed as nicely as usual,but they were the same clothes he had in Canada.  Carrie noticedthat he did not install a large wardrobe, though his own wasanything but large.  She noticed, also, that he did not suggestmany amusements, said nothing about the food, seemed concernedabout his business.  This was not the easy Hurstwood of Chicago--not the liberal, opulent Hurstwood she had known.  The change wastoo obvious to escape detection.

In time she began to feel that a change had come about, and thatshe was not in his confidence.  He was evidently secretive andkept his own counsel.  She found herself asking him questionsabout little things.  This is a disagreeable state to a woman.Great love makes it seem reasonable, sometimes plausible, butnever satisfactory.  Where great love is not, a more definite andless satisfactory conclusion is reached.

As for Hurstwood, he was making a great fight against thedifficulties of a changed condition.  He was too shrewd not torealise the tremendous mistake he had made, and appreciate thathe had done well in getting where he was, and yet he could nothelp contrasting his present state with his former, hour afterhour, and day after day.

Besides, he had the disagreeable fear of meeting old-timefriends, ever since one such encounter which he made shortlyafter his arrival in the city.  It was in Broadway that he saw aman approaching him whom he knew.  There was no time forsimulating non-recognition.  The exchange of glances had been toosharp, the knowledge of each other too apparent.  So the friend,a buyer for one of the Chicago wholesale houses, felt, perforce,the necessity of stopping.

"How are you?" he said, extending his hand with an evidentmixture of feeling and a lack of plausible interest.

"Very well," said Hurstwood, equally embarrassed.  "How is itwith you?"

"All right; I'm down here doing a little buying.  Are you locatedhere now?"

"Yes," said Hurstwood, "I have a place down in Warren Street."

"Is that so?" said the friend.  "Glad to hear it.  I'll come downand see you."

"Do," said Hurstwood.

"So long," said the other, smiling affably and going on.

"He never asked for my number," thought Hurstwood; "he wouldn'tthink of coming." He wiped his forehead, which had grown damp,and hoped sincerely he would meet no one else.

These things told upon his good-nature, such as it was.  His onehope was that things would change for the better in a money way.

He had Carrie.  His furniture was being paid for.  He wasmaintaining his position.  As for Carrie, the amusements he couldgive her would have to do for the present.  He could probablykeep up his pretensions sufficiently long without exposure tomake good, and then all would be well.  He failed therein to takeaccount of the frailties of human nature--the difficulties ofmatrimonial life.  Carrie was young.  With him and with hervarying mental states were common.  At any moment the extremes offeeling might be anti-polarised at the dinner table.  This oftenhappens in the best regulated families.  Little things broughtout on such occasions need great love to obliterate themafterward.  Where that is not, both parties count two and two andmake a problem after a while.

Chapter XXXI

A PET OF GOOD FORTUNE--BROADWAY FLAUNTS ITS JOYS

The effect of the city and his own situation on Hurstwood wasparalleled in the case of Carrie, who accepted the things whichfortune provided with the most genial good-nature.  New York,despite her first expression of disapproval, soon interested herexceedingly.  Its clear atmosphere, more populous thoroughfares,and peculiar indifference struck her forcibly.  She had neverseen such a little flat as hers, and yet it soon enlisted heraffection.  The new furniture made an excellent showing, thesideboard which Hurstwood himself arranged gleamed brightly.  Thefurniture for each room was appropriate, and in the so-calledparlour, or front room, was installed a piano, because Carriesaid she would like to learn to play.  She kept a servant anddeveloped rapidly in household tactics and information.  For thefirst time in her life she felt settled, and somewhat justifiedin the eyes of society as she conceived of it.  Her thoughts weremerry and innocent enough.  For a long while she concernedherself over the arrangement of New York flats, and wondered atten families living in one building and all remaining strange andindifferent to each other.  She also marvelled at the whistles ofthe hundreds of vessels in the harbour--the long, low cries ofthe Sound steamers and ferry-boats when fog was on.  The merefact that these things spoke from the sea made them wonderful.She looked much at what she could see of the Hudson from her westwindows and of the great city building up rapidly on either hand.It was much to ponder over, and sufficed to entertain her formore than a year without becoming stale.

For another thing, Hurstwood was exceedingly interesting in hisaffection for her.  Troubled as he was, he never exposed hisdifficulties to her.  He carried himself with the same self-important air, took his new state with easy familiarity, andrejoiced in Carrie's proclivities and successes.  Each evening hearrived promptly to dinner, and found the little dining-room amost inviting spectacle.  In a way, the smallness of the roomadded to its luxury.  It looked full and replete.  The white-covered table was arrayed with pretty dishes and lighted with afour-armed candelabra, each light of which was topped with a redshade.  Between Carrie and the girl the steaks and chops came outall right, and canned goods did the rest for a while.  Carriestudied the art of making biscuit, and soon reached the stagewhere she could show a plate of light, palatable morsels for herlabour.

In this manner the second, third, and fourth months passed.Winter came, and with it a feeling that indoors was best, so thatthe attending of theatres was not much talked of.  Hurstwood madegreat efforts to meet all expenditures without a show of feelingone way or the other.  He pretended that he was reinvesting hismoney in strengthening the business for greater ends in thefuture.  He contented himself with a very moderate allowance ofpersonal apparel, and rarely suggested anything for Carrie.  Thusthe first winter passed.

In the second year, the business which Hurstwood managed didincrease somewhat.  He got out of it regularly the $150 per monthwhich he had anticipated.  Unfortunately, by this time Carrie hadreached certain conclusions, and he had scraped up a fewacquaintances.

Being of a passive and receptive rather than an active andaggressive nature, Carrie accepted the situation.  Her stateseemed satisfactory enough.  Once in a while they would go to atheatre together, occasionally in season to the beaches anddifferent points about the city, but they picked up noacquaintances.  Hurstwood naturally abandoned his show of finemanners with her and modified his attitude to one of easyfamiliarity.  There were no misunderstandings, no apparentdifferences of opinion.  In fact, without money or visitingfriends, he led a life which could neither arouse jealousy norcomment.  Carrie rather sympathised with his efforts and thoughtnothing upon her lack of entertainment such as she had enjoyed inChicago.  New York as a corporate entity and her flat temporarilyseemed sufficient.

However, as Hurstwood's business increased, he, as stated, beganto pick up acquaintances.  He also began to allow himself moreclothes.  He convinced himself that his home life was veryprecious to him, but allowed that he could occasionally stay awayfrom dinner.  The first time he did this he sent a message sayingthat he would be detained.  Carrie ate alone, and wished that itmight not happen again.  The second time, also, he sent word, butat the last moment.  The third time he forgot entirely andexplained afterwards.  These events were months apart, each.

"Where were you, George?" asked Carrie, after the first absence.

"Tied up at the office," he said genially.  "There were someaccounts I had to straighten."

"I'm sorry you couldn't get home," she said kindly.  "I wasfixing to have such a nice dinner."

The second time he gave a similar excuse, but the third time thefeeling about it in Carrie's mind was a little bit out of theordinary.

"I couldn't get home," he said, when he came in later in theevening, "I was so busy."

"Couldn't you have sent me word?" asked Carrie.

"I meant to," he said, "but you know I forgot it until it was toolate to do any good."

"And I had such a good dinner!" said Carrie.

Now, it so happened that from his observations of Carrie he beganto imagine that she was of the thoroughly domestic type of mind.He really thought, after a year, that her chief expression inlife was finding its natural channel in household duties.Notwithstanding the fact that he had observed her act in Chicago,and that during the past year he had only seen her limited in herrelations to her flat and him by conditions which he made, andthat she had not gained any friends or associates, he drew thispeculiar conclusion.  With it came a feeling of satisfaction inhaving a wife who could thus be content, and this satisfactionworked its natural result.  That is, since he imagined he saw hersatisfied, he felt called upon to give only that whichcontributed to such satisfaction.  He supplied the furniture, thedecorations, the food, and the necessary clothing.  Thoughts ofentertaining her, leading her out into the shine and show oflife, grew less and less.  He felt attracted to the outer world,but did not think she would care to go along.  Once he went tothe theatre alone.  Another time he joined a couple of his newfriends at an evening game of poker.  Since his money-featherswere beginning to grow again he felt like sprucing about.  Allthis, however, in a much less imposing way than had been his wontin Chicago.  He avoided the gay places where he would be apt tomeet those who had known him.Now, Carrie began to feel this in various sensory ways.  She wasnot the kind to be seriously disturbed by his actions.  Notloving him greatly, she could not be jealous in a disturbing way.In fact, she was not jealous at all.  Hurstwood was pleased withher placid manner, when he should have duly considered it.  Whenhe did not come home it did not seem anything like a terriblething to her.  She gave him credit for having the usualallurements of men--people to talk to, places to stop, friends toconsult with.  She was perfectly willing that he should enjoyhimself in his way, but she did not care to be neglected herself.Her state still seemed fairly reasonable, however.  All she didobserve was that Hurstwood was somewhat different.

Some time in the second year of their residence in Seventy-eighthStreet the flat across the hall from Carrie became vacant, andinto it moved a very handsome young woman and her husband, withboth of whom Carrie afterwards became acquainted.  This wasbrought about solely by the arrangement of the flats, which wereunited in one place, as it were, by the dumb-waiter.  This usefulelevator, by which fuel, groceries, and the like were sent upfrom the basement, and garbage and waste sent down, was used byboth residents of one floor; that is, a small door opened into itfrom each flat.

If the occupants of both flats answered to the whistle of thejanitor at the same time, they would stand face to face when theyopened the dumb-waiter doors.  One morning, when Carrie went toremove her paper, the newcomer, a handsome brunette of perhapstwenty-three years of age, was there for a like purpose.  She wasin a night-robe and dressing-gown, with her hair very muchtousled, but she looked so pretty and good-natured that Carrieinstantly conceived a liking for her.  The newcomer did no morethan smile shamefacedly, but it was sufficient.  Carrie felt thatshe would like to know her, and a similar feeling stirred in themind of the other, who admired Carrie's innocent face.

"That's a real pretty woman who has moved in next door," saidCarrie to Hurstwood at the breakfast table.

"Who are they?" asked Hurstwood.

"I don't know," said Carrie.  "The name on the bell is Vance.Some one over there plays beautifully.  I guess it must be she."

"Well, you never can tell what sort of people you're living nextto in this town, can you?" said Hurstwood, expressing thecustomary New York opinion about neighbours.

"Just think," said Carrie, "I have been in this house with nineother families for over a year and I don't know a soul.  Thesepeople have been here over a month and I haven't seen any onebefore this morning."

"It's just as well," said Hurstwood.  'You never know who you'regoing to get in with.  Some of these people are pretty badcompany."

"I expect so," said Carrie, agreeably.

The conversation turned to other things, and Carrie thought nomore upon the subject until a day or two later, when, going outto market, she encountered Mrs. Vance coming in.  The latterrecognised her and nodded, for which Carrie returned a smile.This settled the probability of acquaintanceship.  If there hadbeen no faint recognition on this occasion, there would have beenno future association.

Carrie saw no more of Mrs. Vance for several weeks, but she heardher play through the thin walls which divided the front rooms ofthe flats, and was pleased by the merry selection of pieces andthe brilliance of their rendition.  She could play onlymoderately herself, and such variety as Mrs. Vance exercisedbordered, for Carrie, upon the verge of great art.  Everythingshe had seen and heard thus far--the merest scraps and shadows--indicated that these people were, in a measure, refined and incomfortable circumstances.  So Carrie was ready for any extensionof the friendship which might follow.

One day Carrie's bell rang and the servant, who was in thekitchen, pressed the button which caused the front door of thegeneral entrance on the ground floor to be electricallyunlatched.  When Carrie waited at her own door on the third floorto see who it might be coming up to call on her, Mrs. Vanceappeared.

"I hope you'll excuse me," she said.  "I went out a while ago andforgot my outside key, so I thought I'd ring your bell."

This was a common trick of other residents of the building,whenever they had forgotten their outside keys.  They did notapologise for it, however.

"Certainly," said Carrie.  "I'm glad you did.  I do the samething sometimes."

"Isn't it just delightful weather?" said Mrs. Vance, pausing fora moment.

Thus, after a few more preliminaries, this visiting acquaintancewas well launched, and in the young Mrs. Vance Carrie found anagreeable companion.

On several occasions Carrie visited her and was visited.  Bothflats were good to look upon, though that of the Vances tendedsomewhat more to the luxurious.

"I want you to come over this evening and meet my husband," saidMrs. Vance, not long after their intimacy began.  "He wants tomeet you.  You play cards, don't you?"

"A little," said Carrie.

"Well, we'll have a game of cards.  If your husband comes homebring him over."

"He's not coming to dinner to-night," said Carrie.

"Well, when he does come we'll call him in."

Carrie acquiesced, and that evening met the portly Vance, anindividual a few years younger than Hurstwood, and who owed hisseemingly comfortable matrimonial state much more to his moneythan to his good looks.  He thought well of Carrie upon the firstglance and laid himself out to be genial, teaching her a new gameof cards and talking to her about New York and its pleasures.Mrs. Vance played some upon the piano, and at last Hurstwoodcame.

"I am very glad to meet you," he said to Mrs. Vance when Carrieintroduced him, showing much of the old grace which hadcaptivated Carrie."Did you think your wife had run away?" said Mr. Vance, extendinghis hand upon introduction.

"I didn't know but what she might have found a better husband,"said Hurstwood.

He now turned his attention to Mrs. Vance, and in a flash Carriesaw again what she for some time had subconsciously missed inHurstwood--the adroitness and flattery of which he was capable.She also saw that she was not well dressed--not nearly as welldressed--as Mrs. Vance.  These were not vague ideas any longer.Her situation was cleared up for her.  She felt that her life wasbecoming stale, and therein she felt cause for gloom.  The oldhelpful, urging melancholy was restored.  The desirous Carrie waswhispered to concerning her possibilities.

There were no immediate results to this awakening, for Carrie hadlittle power of initiative; but, nevertheless, she seemed evercapable of getting herself into the tide of change where shewould be easily borne along.  Hurstwood noticed nothing.  He hadbeen unconscious of the marked contrasts which Carrie hadobserved.

He did not even detect the shade of melancholy which settled inher eyes.  Worst of all, she now began to feel the loneliness ofthe flat and seek the company of Mrs. Vance, who liked herexceedingly.

"Let's go to the matinee this afternoon," said Mrs. Vance, whohad stepped across into Carrie's flat one morning, still arrayedin a soft pink dressing-gown, which she had donned upon rising.Hurstwood and Vance had gone their separate ways nearly an hourbefore.

"All right," said Carrie, noticing the air of the petted andwell-groomed woman in Mrs. Vance's general appearance.  Shelooked as though she was dearly loved and her every wishgratified.  "What shall we see?"

"Oh, I do want to see Nat Goodwin," said Mrs. Vance.  "I do thinkhe is the jolliest actor.  The papers say this is such a goodplay."

"What time will we have to start?" asked Carrie.

"Let's go at once and walk down Broadway from Thirty-fourthStreet," said Mrs. Vance.  "It's such an interesting walk.  He'sat the Madison Square."

"I'll be glad to go," said Carrie.  "How much will we have to payfor seats?"

"Not more than a dollar," said Mrs. Vance.

The latter departed, and at one o'clock reappeared, stunninglyarrayed in a dark-blue walking dress, with a nobby hat to match.Carrie had gotten herself up charmingly enough, but this womanpained her by contrast.  She seemed to have so many dainty littlethings which Carrie had not.  There were trinkets of gold, anelegant green leather purse set with her initials, a fancyhandkerchief, exceedingly rich in design, and the like.  Carriefelt that she needed more and better clothes to compare with thiswoman, and that any one looking at the two would pick Mrs. Vancefor her raiment alone.  It was a trying, though rather unjustthought, for Carrie had now developed an equally pleasing figure,and had grown in comeliness until she was a thoroughly attractivetype of her colour of beauty.  There was some difference in theclothing of the two, both of quality and age, but this differencewas not especially noticeable.  It served, however, to augmentCarrie's dissatisfaction with her state.

The walk down Broadway, then as now, was one of the remarkablefeatures of the city.  There gathered, before the matinee andafterwards, not only all the pretty women who love a showyparade, but the men who love to gaze upon and admire them.  Itwas a very imposing procession of pretty faces and fine clothes.Women appeared in their very best hats, shoes, and gloves, andwalked arm in arm on their way to the fine shops or theatresstrung along from Fourteenth to Thirty-fourth Streets.  Equallythe men paraded with the very latest they could afford.  A tailormight have secured hints on suit measurements, a shoemaker onproper lasts and colours, a hatter on hats.  It was literallytrue that if a lover of fine clothes secured a new suit, it wassure to have its first airing on Broadway.  So true and wellunderstood was this fact, that several years later a popularsong, detailing this and other facts concerning the afternoonparade on matinee days, and entitled "What Right Has He onBroadway?" was published, and had quite a vogue about the music-halls of the city.

In all her stay in the city, Carrie had never heard of this showyparade; had never even been on Broadway when it was taking place.On the other hand, it was a familiar thing to Mrs. Vance, who notonly knew of it as an entity, but had often been in it, goingpurposely to see and be seen, to create a stir with her beautyand dispel any tendency to fall short in dressiness bycontrasting herself with the beauty and fashion of the town.

Carrie stepped along easily enough after they got out of the carat Thirty-fourth Street, but soon fixed her eyes upon the lovelycompany which swarmed by and with them as they proceeded.  Shenoticed suddenly that Mrs. Vance's manner had rather stiffenedunder the gaze of handsome men and elegantly dressed ladies,whose glances were not modified by any rules of propriety.  Tostare seemed the proper and natural thing.  Carrie found herselfstared at and ogled.  Men in flawless top-coats, high hats, andsilver-headed walking sticks elbowed near and looked too ofteninto conscious eyes.  Ladies rustled by in dresses of stiffcloth, shedding affected smiles and perfume.  Carrie noticedamong them the sprinkling of goodness and the heavy percentage ofvice.  The rouged and powdered cheeks and lips, the scented hair,the large, misty, and languorous eye, were common enough.  With astart she awoke to find that she was in fashion's crowd, onparade in a show place--and such a show place! Jewellers' windowsgleamed along the path with remarkable frequency.  Florist shops,furriers, haberdashers, confectioners--all followed in rapidsuccession.  The street was full of coaches.  Pompous doormen inimmense coats, shiny brass belts and buttons, waited in front ofexpensive salesrooms.  Coachmen in tan boots, white tights, andblue jackets waited obsequiously for the mistresses of carriageswho were shopping inside.  The whole street bore the flavour ofriches and show, and Carrie felt that she was not of it.  Shecould not, for the life of her, assume the attitude and smartnessof Mrs. Vance, who, in her beauty, was all assurance.  She couldonly imagine that it must be evident to many that she was theless handsomely dressed of the two.  It cut her to the quick, andshe resolved that she would not come here again until she lookedbetter.  At the same time she longed to feel the delight ofparading here as an equal.  Ah, then she would be happy!

Chapter XXXII

THE FEAST OF BELSHAZZAR--A SEER TO TRANSLATE

Such feelings as were generated in Carrie by this walk put her inan exceedingly receptive mood for the pathos which followed inthe play.  The actor whom they had gone to see had achieved hispopularity by presenting a mellow type of comedy, in whichsufficient sorrow was introduced to lend contrast and relief tohumour. For Carrie, as we well know, the stage had a greatattraction.  She had never forgotten her one histrionicachievement in Chicago.  It dwelt in her mind and occupied herconsciousness during many long afternoons in which her rocking-chair and her latest novel contributed the only pleasures of herstate.  Never could she witness a play without having her ownability vividly brought to consciousness.  Some scenes made herlong to be a part of them--to give expression to the feelingswhich she, in the place of the character represented, would feel.Almost invariably she would carry the vivid imaginations awaywith her and brood over them the next day alone.  She lived asmuch in these things as in the realities which made up her dailylife.

It was not often that she came to the play stirred to her heart'score by actualities.  To-day a low song of longing had been setsinging in her heart by the finery, the merriment, the beauty shehad seen.  Oh, these women who had passed her by, hundreds andhundreds strong, who were they? Whence came the rich, elegantdresses, the astonishingly coloured buttons, the knick-knacks ofsilver and gold? Where were these lovely creatures housed? Amidwhat elegancies of carved furniture, decorated walls, elaboratetapestries did they move? Where were their rich apartments,loaded with all that money could provide? In what stables champedthese sleek, nervous horses and rested the gorgeous carriages?Where lounged the richly groomed footmen? Oh, the mansions, thelights, the perfume, the loaded boudoirs and tables! New Yorkmust be filled with such bowers, or the beautiful, insolent,supercilious creatures could not be.  Some hothouses held them.It ached her to know that she was not one of them--that, alas,she had dreamed a dream and it had not come true.  She wonderedat her own solitude these two years past--her indifference to thefact that she had never achieved what she had expected.

The play was one of those drawing-room concoctions in whichcharmingly overdressed ladies and gentlemen suffer the pangs oflove and jealousy amid gilded surroundings.  Such bon-mots areever enticing to those who have all their days longed for suchmaterial surroundings and have never had them gratified.  Theyhave the charm of showing suffering under ideal conditions.  Whowould not grieve upon a gilded chair? Who would not suffer amidperfumed tapestries, cushioned furniture, and liveried servants?Grief under such circumstances becomes an enticing thing.  Carrielonged to be of it.  She wanted to take her sufferings, whateverthey were, in such a world, or failing that, at least to simulatethem under such charming conditions upon the stage.  So affectedwas her mind by what she had seen, that the play now seemed anextraordinarily beautiful thing.  She was soon lost in the worldit represented, and wished that she might never return.  Betweenthe acts she studied the galaxy of matinee attendants in frontrows and boxes, and conceived a new idea of the possibilities ofNew York.  She was sure she had not seen it all--that the citywas one whirl of pleasure and delight.

Going out, the same Broadway taught her a sharper lesson.  Thescene she had witnessed coming down was now augmented and at itsheight.  Such a crush of finery and folly she had never seen.  Itclinched her convictions concerning her state.  She had notlived, could not lay claim to having lived, until something ofthis had come into her own life.  Women were spending money likewater; she could see that in every elegant shop she passed.Flowers, candy, jewelry, seemed the principal things in which theelegant dames were interested.  And she--she had scarcely enoughpin money to indulge in such outings as this a few times a month.

That night the pretty little flat seemed a commonplace thing.  Itwas not what the rest of the world was enjoying.  She saw theservant working at dinner with an indifferent eye.  In her mindwere running scenes of the play.  Particularly she remembered onebeautiful actress--the sweetheart who had been wooed and won.The grace of this woman had won Carrie's heart.  Her dresses hadbeen all that art could suggest, her sufferings had been so real.The anguish which she had portrayed Carrie could feel.  It wasdone as she was sure she could do it.  There were places in whichshe could even do better.  Hence she repeated the lines toherself.  Oh, if she could only have such a part, how broad wouldbe her life! She, too, could act appealingly.

When Hurstwood came, Carrie was moody.  She was sitting, rockingand thinking, and did not care to have her enticing imaginationsbroken in upon; so she said little or nothing.

"What's the matter, Carrie?" said Hurstwood after a time,noticing her quiet, almost moody state.

"Nothing," said Carrie.  "I don't feel very well tonight."

"Not sick, are you?" he asked, approaching very close.

"Oh, no," she said, almost pettishly, "I just don't feel verygood."

"That's too bad," he said, stepping away and adjusting his vestafter his slight bending over.  "I was thinking we might go to ashow to-night."

"I don't want to go," said Carrie, annoyed that her fine visionsshould have thus been broken into and driven out of her mind."I've been to the matinee this afternoon."

"Oh, you have?" said Hurstwood.  "What was it?"

"A Gold Mine."

"How was it?"

"Pretty good," said Carrie.

"And you don't want to go again to night?"

"I don't think I do," she said.

Nevertheless, wakened out of her melancholia and called to thedinner table, she changed her mind.  A little food in the stomachdoes wonders.  She went again, and in so doing temporarilyrecovered her equanimity.  The great awakening blow had, however,been delivered.  As often as she might recover from thesediscontented thoughts now, they would occur again.  Time andrepetition--ah, the wonder of it! The dropping water and thesolid stone--how utterly it yields at last!

Not long after this matinee experience--perhaps a month--Mrs.Vance invited Carrie to an evening at the theatre with them.  Sheheard Carrie say that Hurstwood was not coming home to dinner.

"Why don't you come with us? Don't get dinner for yourself.We're going down to Sherry's for dinner and then over to theLyceum.  Come along with us."

"I think I will," answered Carrie.

She began to dress at three o'clock for her departure at half-past five for the noted dining-room which was then crowdingDelmonico's for position in society.  In this dressing Carrieshowed the influence of her association with the dashing Mrs.Vance.  She had constantly had her attention called by the latterto novelties in everything which pertains to a woman's apparel.

"Are you going to get such and such a hat?" or, "Have you seenthe new gloves with the oval pearl buttons?" were but samplephrases out of a large selection.

"The next time you get a pair of shoes, dearie," said Mrs. Vance,"get button, with thick soles and patent-leather tips.  They'reall the rage this fall."

"I will," said Carrie.

"Oh, dear, have you seen the new shirtwaists at Altman's? Theyhave some of the loveliest patterns.  I saw one there that I knowwould look stunning on you.  I said so when I saw it."

Carrie listened to these things with considerable interest, forthey were suggested with more of friendliness than is usuallycommon between pretty women.  Mrs. Vance liked Carrie's stablegood-nature so well that she really took pleasure in suggestingto her the latest things.

"Why don't you get yourself one of those nice serge skirtsthey're selling at Lord & Taylor's?" she said one day.  "They'rethe circular style, and they're going to be worn from now on.  Adark blue one would look so nice on you."

Carrie listened with eager ears.  These things never came upbetween her and Hurstwood.  Nevertheless, she began to suggestone thing and another, which Hurstwood agreed to without anyexpression of opinion.  He noticed the new tendency on Carrie'spart, and finally, hearing much of Mrs. Vance and her delightfulways, suspected whence the change came.  He was not inclined tooffer the slightest objection so soon, but he felt that Carrie'swants were expanding.  This did not appeal to him exactly, but hecared for her in his own way, and so the thing stood.  Still,there was something in the details of the transactions whichcaused Carrie to feel that her requests were not a delight tohim.  He did not enthuse over the purchases.  This led her tobelieve that neglect was creeping in, and so another small wedgewas entered.

Nevertheless, one of the results of Mrs. Vance's suggestions wasthe fact that on this occasion Carrie was dressed somewhat to herown satisfaction.  She had on her best, but there was comfort inthe thought that if she must confine herself to a best, it wasneat and fitting.  She looked the well-groomed woman of twenty-one, and Mrs. Vance praised her, which brought colour to herplump cheeks and a noticeable brightness into her large eyes.  Itwas threatening rain, and Mr. Vance, at his wife's request, hadcalled a coach."Your husband isn't coming?" suggested Mr. Vance, as he metCarrie in his little parlour.

"No; he said he wouldn't be home for dinner."

"Better leave a little note for him, telling him where we are.He might turn up."

"I will," said Carrie, who had not thought of it before.

"Tell him we'll be at Sherry's until eight o'clock.  He knows,though I guess."

Carrie crossed the hall with rustling skirts, and scrawled thenote, gloves on.  When she returned a newcomer was in the Vanceflat.

"Mrs. Wheeler, let me introduce Mr. Ames, a cousin of mine," saidMrs. Vance.  "He's going along with us, aren't you, Bob?"

"I'm very glad to meet you," said Ames, bowing politely toCarrie.

The latter caught in a glance the dimensions of a very stalwartfigure.  She also noticed that he was smooth-shaven, goodlooking, and young, but nothing more.

"Mr. Ames is just down in New York for a few days," put in Vance,"and we're trying to show him around a little."

"Oh, are you?" said Carrie, taking another glance at thenewcomer.

"Yes; I am just on here from Indianapolis for a week or so," saidyoung Ames, seating himself on the edge of a chair to wait whileMrs. Vance completed the last touches of her toilet.

"I guess you find New York quite a thing to see, don't you?" saidCarrie, venturing something to avoid a possible deadly silence.

"It is rather large to get around in a week," answered Ames,pleasantly.

He was an exceedingly genial soul, this young man, and whollyfree of affectation.  It seemed to Carrie he was as yet onlyovercoming the last traces of the bashfulness of youth.  He didnot seem apt at conversation, but he had the merit of being welldressed and wholly courageous.  Carrie felt as if it were notgoing to be hard to talk to him.

"Well, I guess we're ready now.  The coach is outside."

"Come on, people," said Mrs. Vance, coming in smiling.  "Bob,you'll have to look after Mrs. Wheeler."

"I'll try to," said Bob smiling, and edging closer to Carrie."You won't need much watching, will you?" he volunteered, in asort of ingratiating and help-me-out kind of way.

"Not very, I hope," said Carrie.

They descended the stairs, Mrs. Vance offering suggestions, andclimbed into the open coach.

"All right," said Vance, slamming the coach door, and theconveyance rolled away.

"What is it we're going to see?" asked Ames.

"Sothern," said Vance, "in 'Lord Chumley.'"

"Oh, he is so good!" said Mrs. Vance.  "He's just the funniestman."

"I notice the papers praise it," said Ames.

"I haven't any doubt," put in Vance, "but we'll all enjoy it verymuch."

Ames had taken a seat beside Carrie, and accordingly he felt ithis bounden duty to pay her some attention.  He was interested tofind her so young a wife, and so pretty, though it was only arespectful interest.  There was nothing of the dashing lady's manabout him.  He had respect for the married state, and thoughtonly of some pretty marriageable girls in Indianapolis.

"Are you a born New Yorker?" asked Ames of Carrie.

"Oh, no; I've only been here for two years."

"Oh, well, you've had time to see a great deal of it, anyhow."

"I don't seem to have," answered Carrie.  "It's about as strangeto me as when I first came here."

"You're not from the West, are you?"

"Yes.  I'm from Wisconsin," she answered.

"Well, it does seem as if most people in this town haven't beenhere so very long.  I hear of lots of Indiana people in my linewho are here."

"What is your line?" asked Carrie.

"I'm connected with an electrical company," said the youth.

Carrie followed up this desultory conversation with occasionalinterruptions from the Vances.  Several times it became generaland partially humorous, and in that manner the restaurant wasreached.

Carrie had noticed the appearance of gayety and pleasure-seekingin the streets which they were following.  Coaches were numerous,pedestrians many, and in Fifty-ninth Street the street cars werecrowded.  At Fifty-ninth Street and Fifth Avenue a blaze oflights from several new hotels which bordered the Plaza Squaregave a suggestion of sumptuous hotel life.  Fifth Avenue, thehome of the wealthy, was noticeably crowded with carriages, andgentlemen in evening dress.  At Sherry's an imposing doormanopened the coach door and helped them out.  Young Ames heldCarrie's elbow as he helped her up the steps.  They entered thelobby already swarming with patrons, and then, after divestingthemselves of their wraps, went into a sumptuous dining-room.

In all Carrie's experience she had never seen anything like this.In the whole time she had been in New York Hurstwood's modifiedstate had not permitted his bringing her to such a place.  Therewas an almost indescribable atmosphere about it which convincedthe newcomer that this was the proper thing.  Here was the placewhere the matter of expense limited the patrons to the moneyed orpleasure-loving class.  Carrie had read of it often in the"Morning" and "Evening World." She had seen notices of dances,parties, balls, and suppers at Sherry's.  The Misses So-and-sowould give a party on Wednesday evening at Sherry's.  Young Mr.So-and-So would entertain a party of friends at a privateluncheon on the sixteenth, at Sherry's.  The common run ofconventional, perfunctory notices of the doings of society, whichshe could scarcely refrain from scanning each day, had given hera distinct idea of the gorgeousness and luxury of this wonderfultemple of gastronomy.  Now, at last, she was really in it.  Shehad come up the imposing steps, guarded by the large and portlydoorman.  She had seen the lobby, guarded by another large andportly gentleman, and been waited upon by uniformed youths whotook care of canes, overcoats, and the like.  Here was thesplendid dining-chamber, all decorated and aglow, where thewealthy ate.  Ah, how fortunate was Mrs. Vance; young, beautiful,and well off--at least, sufficiently so to come here in a coach.What a wonderful thing it was to be rich.

Vance led the way through lanes of shining tables, at which wereseated parties of two, three, four, five, or six.  The air ofassurance and dignity about it all was exceedingly noticeable tothe novitiate.  Incandescent lights, the reflection of their glowin polished glasses, and the shine of gilt upon the walls,combined into one tone of light which it requires minutes ofcomplacent observation to separate and take particular note of.The white shirt fronts of the gentlemen, the bright costumes ofthe ladies, diamonds, jewels, fine feathers--all were exceedinglynoticeable.

Carrie walked with an air equal to that of Mrs. Vance, andaccepted the seat which the head waiter provided for her.  Shewas keenly aware of all the little things that were done--thelittle genuflections and attentions of the waiters and headwaiter which Americans pay for.  The air with which the latterpulled out each chair, and the wave of the hand with which hemotioned them to be seated, were worth several dollars inthemselves.

Once seated, there began that exhibition of showy, wasteful, andunwholesome gastronomy as practised by wealthy Americans, whichis the wonder and astonishment of true culture and dignity theworld over.  The large bill of fare held an array of dishessufficient to feed an army, sidelined with prices which madereasonable expenditure a ridiculous impossibility--an order ofsoup at fifty cents or a dollar, with a dozen kinds to choosefrom; oysters in forty styles and at sixty cents the half-dozen;entrees, fish, and meats at prices which would house one overnight in an average hotel.  One dollar fifty and two dollarsseemed to be the most common figures upon this most tastefullyprinted bill of fare.

Carrie noticed this, and in scanning it the price of springchicken carried her back to that other bill of fare and fardifferent occasion when, for the first time, she sat with Drouetin a good restaurant in Chicago.  It was only momentary--a sadnote as out of an old song--and then it was gone.  But in thatflash was seen the other Carrie--poor, hungry, drifting at herwits' ends, and all Chicago a cold and closed world, from whichshe only wandered because she could not find work.

On the walls were designs in colour, square spots of robin's-eggblue, set in ornate frames of gilt, whose corners were elaboratemouldings of fruit and flowers, with fat cupids hovering inangelic comfort.  On the ceilings were coloured traceries withmore gilt, leading to a centre where spread a cluster of lights--incandescent globes mingled with glittering prisms and stuccotendrils of gilt.  The floor was of a reddish hue, waxed andpolished, and in every direction were mirrors--tall, brilliant,bevel-edged mirrors--reflecting and re-reflecting forms, faces,and candelabra a score and a hundred times.

The tables were not so remarkable in themselves, and yet theimprint of Sherry upon the napery, the name of Tiffany upon thesilverware, the name of Haviland upon the china, and over all theglow of the small, red-shaded candelabra and the reflected tintsof the walls on garments and faces, made them seem remarkable.Each waiter added an air of exclusiveness and elegance by themanner in which he bowed, scraped, touched, and trifled withthings.  The exclusively personal attention which he devoted toeach one, standing half bent, ear to one side, elbows akimbo,saying: "Soup--green turtle, yes.  One portion, yes.  Oysters--certainly--half-dozen--yes.  Asparagus.  Olives--yes."

It would be the same with each one, only Vance essayed to orderfor all, inviting counsel and suggestions.  Carrie studied thecompany with open eyes.  So this was high life in New York.  Itwas so that the rich spent their days and evenings.  Her poorlittle mind could not rise above applying each scene to allsociety.  Every fine lady must be in the crowd on Broadway in theafternoon, in the theatre at the matinee, in the coaches anddining-halls at night.  It must be glow and shine everywhere,with coaches waiting, and footmen attending, and she was out ofit all.  In two long years she had never even been in such aplace as this.

Vance was in his element here, as Hurstwood would have been informer days.  He ordered freely of soup, oysters, roast meats,and side dishes, and had several bottles of wine brought, whichwere set down beside the table in a wicker basket.

Ames was looking away rather abstractedly at the crowd and showedan interesting profile to Carrie.  His forehead was high, hisnose rather large and strong, his chin moderately pleasing.  Hehad a good, wide, well-shaped mouth, and his dark-brown hair wasparted slightly on one side.  He seemed to have the least touchof boyishness to Carrie, and yet he was a man full grown.

"Do you know," he said, turning back to Carrie, after hisreflection, "I sometimes think it is a shame for people to spendso much money this way."

Carrie looked at him a moment with the faintest touch of surpriseat his seriousness.  He seemed to be thinking about somethingover which she had never pondered.

"Do you?" she answered, interestedly.

"Yes," he said, "they pay so much more than these things areworth.  They put on so much show."

"I don't know why people shouldn't spend when they have it," saidMrs. Vance.

"It doesn't do any harm," said Vance, who was still studying thebill of fare, though he had ordered.

Ames was looking away again, and Carrie was again looking at hisforehead.  To her he seemed to be thinking about strange things.As he studied the crowd his eye was mild.

"Look at that woman's dress over there," he said, again turningto Carrie, and nodding in a direction.

"Where?" said Carrie, following his eyes.

"Over there in the corner--way over.  Do you see that brooch?"

"Isn't it large?" said Carrie.

"One of the largest clusters of jewels I have ever seen," saidAmes.

"It is, isn't it?" said Carrie.  She felt as if she would like tobe agreeable to this young man, and also there came with it, orperhaps preceded it, the slightest shade of a feeling that he wasbetter educated than she was--that his mind was better.  Heseemed to look it, and the saving grace in Carrie was that shecould understand that people could be wiser.  She had seen anumber of people in her life who reminded her of what she hadvaguely come to think of as scholars.  This strong young manbeside her, with his clear, natural look, seemed to get a hold ofthings which she did not quite understand, but approved of.  Itwas fine to be so, as a man, she thought.

The conversation changed to a book that was having its vogue atthe time--"Moulding a Maiden," by Albert Ross.  Mrs. Vance hadread it.  Vance had seen it discussed in some of the papers.

"A man can make quite a strike writing a book," said Vance.  "Inotice this fellow Ross is very much talked about." He waslooking at Carrie as he spoke.

"I hadn't heard of him," said Carrie, honestly.

"Oh, I have," said Mrs. Vance.  "He's written lots of things.This last story is pretty good."

"He doesn't amount to much," said Ames.

Carrie turned her eyes toward him as to an oracle.

"His stuff is nearly as bad as 'Dora Thorne,'" concluded Ames.

Carrie felt this as a personal reproof.  She read "Dora Thorne,"or had a great deal in the past.  It seemed only fair to her, butshe supposed that people thought it very fine.  Now this clear-eyed, fine-headed youth, who looked something like a student toher, made fun of it.  It was poor to him, not worth reading.  Shelooked down, and for the first time felt the pain of notunderstanding.

Yet there was nothing sarcastic or supercilious in the way Amesspoke.  He had very little of that in him.  Carrie felt that itwas just kindly thought of a high order--the right thing tothink, and wondered what else was right, according to him.  Heseemed to notice that she listened and rather sympathised withhim, and from now on he talked mostly to her.

As the waiter bowed and scraped about, felt the dishes to see ifthey were hot enough, brought spoons and forks, and did all thoselittle attentive things calculated to impress the luxury of thesituation upon the diner, Ames also leaned slightly to one sideand told her of Indianapolis in an intelligent way.  He reallyhad a very bright mind, which was finding its chief developmentin electrical knowledge.  His sympathies for other forms ofinformation, however, and for types of people, were quick andwarm.  The red glow on his head gave it a sandy tinge and put abright glint in his eye.  Carrie noticed all these things as heleaned toward her and felt exceedingly young.  This man was farahead of her.  He seemed wiser than Hurstwood, saner and brighterthan Drouet.  He seemed innocent and clean, and she thought thathe was exceedingly pleasant.  She noticed, also, that hisinterest in her was a far-off one.  She was not in his life, norany of the things that touched his life, and yet now, as he spokeof these things, they appealed to her.

"I shouldn't care to be rich," he told her, as the dinnerproceeded and the supply of food warmed up his sympathies; "notrich enough to spend my money this way."

"Oh, wouldn't you?" said Carrie, the, to her, new attitudeforcing itself distinctly upon her for the first time.

"No," he said.  "What good would it do? A man doesn't need thissort of thing to be happy."

Carrie thought of this doubtfully; but, coming from him, it hadweight with her.

"He probably could be happy," she thought to herself, "all alone.He's so strong."

Mr. and Mrs. Vance kept up a running fire of interruptions, andthese impressive things by Ames came at odd moments.  They weresufficient, however, for the atmosphere that went with this youthimpressed itself upon Carrie without words.  There was somethingin him, or the world he moved in, which appealed to her.  Hereminded her of scenes she had seen on the stage--the sorrows andsacrifices that always went with she knew not what.  He had takenaway some of the bitterness of the contrast between this life andher life, and all by a certain calm indifference which concernedonly him.

As they went out, he took her arm and helped her into the coach,and then they were off again, and so to the show.

During the acts Carrie found herself listening to him veryattentively.  He mentioned things in the play which she mostapproved of--things which swayed her deeply.

"Don't you think it rather fine to be an actor?" she asked once.

"Yes, I do," he said, "to be a good one.  I think the theatre agreat thing."

Just this little approval set Carrie's heart bounding.  Ah, ifshe could only be an actress--a good one! This man was wise--heknew--and he approved of it.  If she were a fine actress, suchmen as he would approve of her.  She felt that he was good tospeak as he had, although it did not concern her at all.  She didnot know why she felt this way.

At the close of the show it suddenly developed that he was notgoing back with them.

"Oh, aren't you?" said Carrie, with an unwarrantable feeling.

"Oh, no," he said; "I'm stopping right around here in Thirty-third Street."

Carrie could not say anything else, but somehow this developmentshocked her.  She had been regretting the wane of a pleasantevening, but she had thought there was a half-hour more.  Oh, thehalf-hours, the minutes of the world; what miseries and griefsare crowded into them!

She said good-bye with feigned indifference.  What matter couldit make? Still, the coach seemed lorn.

When she went into her own flat she had this to think about.  Shedid not know whether she would ever see this man any more.  Whatdifference could it make--what difference could it make?

Hurstwood had returned, and was already in bed.  His clothes werescattered loosely about.  Carrie came to the door and saw him,then retreated.  She did not want to go in yet a while.  Shewanted to think.  It was disagreeable to her.

Back in the dining-room she sat in her chair and rocked.  Herlittle hands were folded tightly as she thought.  Through a fogof longing and conflicting desires she was beginning to see.  Oh,ye legions of hope and pity--of sorrow and pain! She was rocking,and beginning to see.

Chapter XXXIII

WITHOUT THE WALLED CITY--THE SLOPE OF THE YEARS

The immediate result of this was nothing.  Results from suchthings are usually long in growing.  Morning brings a change offeeling.  The existent condition invariably pleads for itself.It is only at odd moments that we get glimpses of the misery ofthings.  The heart understands when it is confronted withcontrasts.  Take them away and the ache subsides.

Carrie went on, leading much this same life for six monthsthereafter or more.  She did not see Ames any more.  He calledonce upon the Vances, but she only heard about it through theyoung wife.  Then he went West, and there was a gradualsubsidence of whatever personal attraction had existed.  Themental effect of the thing had not gone, however, and never wouldentirely.  She had an ideal to contrast men by--particularly menclose to her.

During all this time--a period rapidly approaching three years--Hurstwood had been moving along in an even path.  There was noapparent slope downward, and distinctly none upward, so far asthe casual observer might have seen.  But psychologically therewas a change, which was marked enough to suggest the future verydistinctly indeed.  This was in the mere matter of the halt hiscareer had received when he departed from Chicago.  A man'sfortune or material progress is very much the same as his bodilygrowth.  Either he is growing stronger, healthier, wiser, as theyouth approaching manhood, or he is growing weaker, older, lessincisive mentally, as the man approaching old age.  There are noother states.  Frequently there is a period between the cessationof youthful accretion and the setting in, in the case of themiddle-aged man, of the tendency toward decay when the twoprocesses are almost perfectly balanced and there is little doingin either direction.  Given time enough, however, the balancebecomes a sagging to the grave side.  Slowly at first, then witha modest momentum, and at last the graveward process is in thefull swing.  So it is frequently with man's fortune.  If itsprocess of accretion is never halted, if the balancing stage isnever reached, there will be no toppling.  Rich men are,frequently, in these days, saved from this dissolution of theirfortune by their ability to hire younger brains.  These youngerbrains look upon the interests of the fortune as their own, andso steady and direct its progress.  If each individual were leftabsolutely to the care of his own interests, and were given timeenough in which to grow exceedingly old, his fortune would passas his strength and will.  He and his would be utterly dissolvedand scattered unto the four winds of the heavens.

But now see wherein the parallel changes.  A fortune, like a man,is an organism which draws to itself other minds and otherstrength than that inherent in the founder.  Beside the youngminds drawn to it by salaries, it becomes allied with youngforces, which make for its existence even when the strength andwisdom of the founder are fading.  It may be conserved by thegrowth of a community or of a state.  It may be involved inproviding something for which there is a growing demand.  Thisremoves it at once beyond the special care of the founder.  Itneeds not so much foresight now as direction.  The man wanes, theneed continues or grows, and the fortune, fallen into whose handsit may, continues.  Hence, some men never recognise the turningin the tide of their abilities.  It is only in chance cases,where a fortune or a state of success is wrested from them, thatthe lack of ability to do as they did formerly becomes apparent.Hurstwood, set down under new conditions, was in a position tosee that he was no longer young.  If he did not, it was duewholly to the fact that his state was so well balanced that anabsolute change for the worse did not show.

Not trained to reason or introspect himself, he could not analysethe change that was taking place in his mind, and hence his body,but he felt the depression of it.  Constant comparison betweenhis old state and his new showed a balance for the worse, whichproduced a constant state of gloom or, at least, depression.Now, it has been shown experimentally that a constantly subduedframe of mind produces certain poisons in the blood, calledkatastates, just as virtuous feelings of pleasure and delightproduce helpful chemicals called anastates.  The poisonsgenerated by remorse inveigh against the system, and eventuallyproduce marked physical deterioration.  To these Hurstwood wassubject.

In the course of time it told upon his temper.  His eye no longerpossessed that buoyant, searching shrewdness which hadcharacterised it in Adams Street.  His step was not as sharp andfirm.  He was given to thinking, thinking, thinking.  The newfriends he made were not celebrities.  They were of a cheaper, aslightly more sensual and cruder, grade.  He could not possiblytake the pleasure in this company that he had in that of thosefine frequenters of the Chicago resort.  He was left to brood.

Slowly, exceedingly slowly, his desire to greet, conciliate, andmake at home these people who visited the Warren Street placepassed from him.  More and more slowly the significance of therealm he had left began to be clear.  It did not seem sowonderful to be in it when he was in it.  It had seemed very easyfor any one to get up there and have ample raiment and money tospend, but now that he was out of it, how far off it became.  Hebegan to see as one sees a city with a wall about it.  Men wereposted at the gates.  You could not get in.  Those inside did notcare to come out to see who you were.  They were so merry insidethere that all those outside were forgotten, and he was on theoutside.

Each day he could read in the evening papers of the doings withinthis walled city.  In the notices of passengers for Europe heread the names of eminent frequenters of his old resort.  In thetheatrical column appeared, from time to time, announcements ofthe latest successes of men he had known.  He knew that they wereat their old gayeties.  Pullmans were hauling them to and froabout the land, papers were greeting them with interestingmentions, the elegant lobbies of hotels and the glow of polisheddining-rooms were keeping them close within the walled city.  Menwhom he had known, men whom he had tipped glasses with--rich men,and he was forgotten! Who was Mr. Wheeler? What was the WarrenStreet resort? Bah!

If one thinks that such thoughts do not come to so common a typeof mind--that such feelings require a higher mental development--I would urge for their consideration the fact that it is thehigher mental development that does away with such thoughts.  Itis the higher mental development which induces philosophy andthat fortitude which refuses to dwell upon such things--refusesto be made to suffer by their consideration.  The common type ofmind is exceedingly keen on all matters which relate to itsphysical welfare--exceedingly keen.  It is the unintellectualmiser who sweats blood at the loss of a hundred dollars.  It isthe Epictetus who smiles when the last vestige of physicalwelfare is removed.

The time came, in the third year, when this thinking began toproduce results in the Warren Street place.  The tide ofpatronage dropped a little below what it had been at its bestsince he had been there.  This irritated and worried him.

There came a night when he confessed to Carrie that the businesswas not doing as well this month as it had the month before.This was in lieu of certain suggestions she had made concerninglittle things she wanted to buy.  She had not failed to noticethat he did not seem to consult her about buying clothes forhimself.  For the first time, it struck her as a ruse, or that hesaid it so that she would not think of asking for things.  Herreply was mild enough, but her thoughts were rebellious.  He wasnot looking after her at all.  She was depending for herenjoyment upon the Vances.

And now the latter announced that they were going away.  It wasapproaching spring, and they were going North.

"Oh, yes," said Mrs. Vance to Carrie, "we think we might as wellgive up the flat and store our things.  We'll be gone for thesummer, and it would be a useless expense.  I think we'll settlea little farther down town when we come back."

Carrie heard this with genuine sorrow.  She had enjoyed Mrs.Vance's companionship so much.  There was no one else in thehouse whom she knew.  Again she would be all alone.

Hurstwood's gloom over the slight decrease in profits and thedeparture of the Vances came together.  So Carrie had lonelinessand this mood of her husband to enjoy at the same time.  It was agrievous thing.  She became restless and dissatisfied, notexactly, as she thought, with Hurstwood, but with life.  What wasit? A very dull round indeed.  What did she have? Nothing butthis narrow, little flat.  The Vances could travel, they could dothe things worth doing, and here she was.  For what was she made,anyhow? More thought followed, and then tears--tears seemedjustified, and the only relief in the world.

For another period this state continued, the twain leading arather monotonous life, and then there was a slight change forthe worse.  One evening, Hurstwood, after thinking about a way tomodify Carrie's desire for clothes and the general strain uponhis ability to provide, said:

"I don't think I'll ever be able to do much with Shaughnessy."

"What's the matter?" said Carrie.

"Oh, he's a slow, greedy 'mick'! He won't agree to anything toimprove the place, and it won't ever pay without it."

"Can't you make him?" said Carrie.

"No; I've tried.  The only thing I can see, if I want to improve,is to get hold of a place of my own."

"Why don't you?" said Carrie.

"Well, all I have is tied up in there just now.  If I had achance to save a while I think I could open a place that wouldgive us plenty of money."

"Can't we save?" said Carrie.

"We might try it," he suggested.  "I've been thinking that ifwe'd take a smaller flat down town and live economically for ayear, I would have enough, with what I have invested, to open agood place.  Then we could arrange to live as you want to."

"It would suit me all right," said Carrie, who, nevertheless,felt badly to think it had come to this.  Talk of a smaller flatsounded like poverty.

"There are lots of nice little flats down around Sixth Avenue,below Fourteenth Street.  We might get one down there."

"I'll look at them if you say so," said Carrie.

"I think I could break away from this fellow inside of a year,"said Hurstwood.  "Nothing will ever come of this arrangement asit's going on now."

"I'll look around," said Carrie, observing that the proposedchange seemed to be a serious thing with him.

The upshot of this was that the change was eventually effected;not without great gloom on the part of Carrie.  It reallyaffected her more seriously than anything that had yet happened.She began to look upon Hurstwood wholly as a man, and not as alover or husband.  She felt thoroughly bound to him as a wife,and that her lot was cast with his, whatever it might be; but shebegan to see that he was gloomy and taciturn, not a young,strong, and buoyant man.  He looked a little bit old to her aboutthe eyes and mouth now, and there were other things which placedhim in his true rank, so far as her estimation was concerned.She began to feel that she had made a mistake.  Incidentally, shealso began to recall the fact that he had practically forced herto flee with him.

The new flat was located in Thirteenth Street, a half block westof Sixth Avenue, and contained only four rooms.  The newneighbourhood did not appeal to Carrie as much.  There were notrees here, no west view of the river.  The street was solidlybuilt up.  There were twelve families here, respectable enough,but nothing like the Vances.  Richer people required more space.

Being left alone in this little place, Carrie did without a girl.She made it charming enough, but could not make it delight her.Hurstwood was not inwardly pleased to think that they should haveto modify their state, but he argued that he could do nothing.He must put the best face on it, and let it go at that.

He tried to show Carrie that there was no cause for financialalarm, but only congratulation over the chance he would have atthe end of the year by taking her rather more frequently to thetheatre and by providing a liberal table.  This was for the timeonly.  He was getting in the frame of mind where he wantedprincipally to be alone and to be allowed to think.  The diseaseof brooding was beginning to claim him as a victim.  Only thenewspapers and his own thoughts were worth while.  The delight oflove had again slipped away.  It was a case of live, now, makingthe best you can out of a very commonplace station in life.

The road downward has but few landings and level places.  Thevery state of his mind, superinduced by his condition, caused thebreach to widen between him and his partner.  At last thatindividual began to wish that Hurstwood was out of it.  It sohappened, however, that a real estate deal on the part of theowner of the land arranged things even more effectually than ill-will could have schemed.

"Did you see that?" said Shaughnessy one morning to Hurstwood,pointing to the real estate column in a copy of the "Herald,"which he held.

"No, what is it?" said Hurstwood, looking down the items of news.

"The man who owns this ground has sold it."

"You don't say so?" said Hurstwood.

He looked, and there was the notice.  Mr. August Viele hadyesterday registered the transfer of the lot, 25 x 75 feet, atthe corner of Warren and Hudson Streets, to J. F. Slawson for thesum of $57,000.

"Our lease expires when?" asked Hurstwood, thinking.  "NextFebruary, isn't it?"

"That's right," said Shaughnessy.

"It doesn't say what the new man's going to do with it," remarkedHurstwood, looking back to the paper.

"We'll hear, I guess, soon enough," said Shaughnessy.

Sure enough, it did develop.  Mr. Slawson owned the propertyadjoining, and was going to put up a modern office building.  Thepresent one was to be torn down.  It would take probably a yearand a half to complete the other one.

All these things developed by degrees, and Hurstwood began toponder over what would become of the saloon.  One day he spokeabout it to his partner.

"Do you think it would be worth while to open up somewhere elsein the neighbourhood?"

"What would be the use?" said Shaughnessy.  "We couldn't getanother corner around here."

"It wouldn't pay anywhere else, do you think?"

"I wouldn't try it," said the other.The approaching change now took on a most serious aspect toHurstwood.  Dissolution meant the loss of his thousand dollars,and he could not save another thousand in the time.  Heunderstood that Shaughnessy was merely tired of the arrangement,and would probably lease the new corner, when completed, alone.He began to worry about the necessity of a new connection and tosee impending serious financial straits unless something turnedup.  This left him in no mood to enjoy his flat or Carrie, andconsequently the depression invaded that quarter.

Meanwhile, he took such time as he could to look about, butopportunities were not numerous.  More, he had not the sameimpressive personality which he had when he first came to NewYork.  Bad thoughts had put a shade into his eyes which did notimpress others favourably.  Neither had he thirteen hundreddollars in hand to talk with.  About a month later, finding thathe had not made any progress, Shaughnessy reported definitelythat Slawson would not extend the lease.

"I guess this thing's got to come to an end," he said, affectingan air of concern.

"Well, if it has, it has," answered Hurstwood, grimly.  He wouldnot give the other a key to his opinions, whatever they were.  Heshould not have the satisfaction.

A day or two later he saw that he must say something to Carrie.

"You know," he said, "I think I'm going to get the worst of mydeal down there."

"How is that?" asked Carrie in astonishment.

"Well, the man who owns the ground has sold it.  and the newowner won't release it to us.  The business may come to an end."

"Can't you start somewhere else?"

"There doesn't seem to be any place.  Shaughnessy doesn't wantto."

"Do you lose what you put in?"

"Yes," said Hurstwood, whose face was a study.

"Oh, isn't that too bad?" said Carrie.

"It's a trick," said Hurstwood.  "That's all.  They'll startanother place there all right."

Carrie looked at him, and gathered from his whole demeanour whatit meant.  It was serious, very serious.

"Do you think you can get something else?" she ventured, timidly.

Hurstwood thought a while.  It was all up with the bluff aboutmoney and investment.  She could see now that he was "broke."

"I don't know," he said solemnly; "I can try."

Chapter XXXIV

THE GRIND OF THE MILLSTONES--A SAMPLE OF CHAFF

Carrie pondered over this situation as consistently as Hurstwood,once she got the facts adjusted in her mind.  It took severaldays for her to fully realise that the approach of thedissolution of her husband's business meant commonplace struggleand privation.  Her mind went back to her early venture inChicago, the Hansons and their flat, and her heart revolted.That was terrible! Everything about poverty was terrible.  Shewished she knew a way out.  Her recent experiences with theVances had wholly unfitted her to view her own state withcomplacence.  The glamour of the high life of the city had, inthe few experiences afforded her by the former, seized hercompletely.  She had been taught how to dress and where to gowithout having ample means to do either.  Now, these things--ever-present realities as they were--filled her eyes and mind.The more circumscribed became her state, the more entrancingseemed this other.  And now poverty threatened to seize herentirely and to remove this other world far upward like a heavento which any Lazarus might extend, appealingly, his hands.

So, too, the ideal brought into her life by Ames remained.  Hehad gone, but here was his word that riches were not everything;that there was a great deal more in the world than she knew; thatthe stage was good, and the literature she read poor.  He was astrong man and clean--how much stronger and better than Hurstwoodand Drouet she only half formulated to herself, but thedifference was painful.  It was something to which shevoluntarily closed her eyes.

During the last three months of the Warren Street connection,Hurstwood took parts of days off and hunted, tracking thebusiness advertisements.  It was a more or less depressingbusiness, wholly because of the thought that he must soon getsomething or he would begin to live on the few hundred dollars hewas saving, and then he would have nothing to invest--he wouldhave to hire out as a clerk.

Everything he discovered in his line advertised as anopportunity, was either too expensive or too wretched for him.Besides, winter was coming, the papers were announcing hardships,and there was a general feeling of hard times in the air, or, atleast, he thought so.  In his worry, other people's worriesbecame apparent.  No item about a firm failing, a familystarving, or a man dying upon the streets, supposedly ofstarvation, but arrested his eye as he scanned the morningpapers.  Once the "World" came out with a flaring announcementabout "80,000 people out of employment in New York this winter,"which struck as a knife at his heart.

"Eighty thousand!" he thought.  "What an awful thing that is."

This was new reasoning for Hurstwood.  In the old days the worldhad seemed to be getting along well enough.  He had been wont tosee similar things in the "Daily News," in Chicago, but they didnot hold his attention.  Now, these things were like grey cloudshovering along the horizon of a clear day.  They threatened tocover and obscure his life with chilly greyness.  He tried toshake them off, to forget and brace up.  Sometimes he said tohimself, mentally:

"What's the use worrying? I'm not out yet.  I've got six weeksmore.  Even if worst comes to worst, I've got enough to live onfor six months."

Curiously, as he troubled over his future, his thoughtsoccasionally reverted to his wife and family.  He had avoidedsuch thoughts for the first three years as much as possible.  Hehated her, and he could get along without her.  Let her go.  Hewould do well enough.  Now, however, when he was not doing wellenough, he began to wonder what she was doing, how his childrenwere getting along.  He could see them living as nicely as ever,occupying the comfortable house and using his property.

"By George! it's a shame they should have it all," he vaguelythought to himself on several occasions.  "I didn't do anything."

As he looked back now and analysed the situation which led up tohis taking the money, he began mildly to justify himself.  Whathad he done--what in the world--that should bar him out this wayand heap such difficulties upon him? It seemed only yesterday tohim since he was comfortable and well-to-do.  But now it was allwrested from him.

"She didn't deserve what she got out of me, that is sure.  Ididn't do so much, if everybody could just know."

There was no thought that the facts ought to be advertised.  Itwas only a mental justification he was seeking from himself--something that would enable him to bear his state as a righteousman.

One afternoon, five weeks before the Warren Street place closedup, he left the saloon to visit three or four places he sawadvertised in the "Herald." One was down in Gold Street, and hevisited that, but did not enter.  It was such a cheap lookingplace he felt that he could not abide it.  Another was on theBowery, which he knew contained many showy resorts.  It was nearGrand Street, and turned out to be very handsomely fitted up.  Hetalked around about investments for fully three-quarters of anhour with the proprietor, who maintained that his health waspoor, and that was the reason he wished a partner.

"Well, now, just how much money would it take to buy a halfinterest here?" said Hurstwood, who saw seven hundred dollars ashis limit.

"Three thousand," said the man.

Hurstwood's jaw fell.

"Cash?" he said.

"Cash."

He tried to put on an air of deliberation, as one who mightreally buy; but his eyes showed gloom.  He wound up by saying hewould think it over, and came away.  The man he had been talkingto sensed his condition in a vague way.

"I don't think he wants to buy," he said to himself.  "He doesn'ttalk right."

The afternoon was as grey as lead and cold.  It was blowing up adisagreeable winter wind.  He visited a place far up on the eastside, near Sixty-ninth Street, and it was five o'clock, andgrowing dim, when he reached there.  A portly German kept thisplace.

"How about this ad of yours?" asked Hurstwood, who ratherobjected to the looks of the place.

"Oh, dat iss all over," said the German.  "I vill not sell now."

"Oh, is that so?"

"Yes; dere is nothing to dat.  It iss all over."

"Very well," said Hurstwood, turning around.

The German paid no more attention to him, and it made him angry.

"The crazy ass!" he said to himself.  "What does he want toadvertise for?"

Wholly depressed, he started for Thirteenth Street.  The flat hadonly a light in the kitchen, where Carrie was working.  He strucka match and, lighting the gas, sat down in the dining-roomwithout even greeting her.  She came to the door and looked in.

"It's you, is it?" she said, and went back.

"Yes," he said, without even looking up from the evening paper hehad bought.

Carrie saw things were wrong with him.  He was not so handsomewhen gloomy.  The lines at the sides of the eyes were deepened.Naturally dark of skin, gloom made him look slightly sinister.He was quite a disagreeable figure.

Carrie set the table and brought in the meal.

"Dinner's ready," she said, passing him for something.

He did not answer, reading on.

She came in and sat down at her place, feeling exceedinglywretched.

"Won't you eat now?" she asked.

He folded his paper and drew near, silence holding for a time,except for the "Pass me's."

"It's been gloomy to-day, hasn't it?" ventured Carrie, after atime.

"Yes," he said.

He only picked at his food.

"Are you still sure to close up?" said Carrie, venturing to takeup the subject which they had discussed often enough.

"Of course we are," he said, with the slightest modification ofsharpness.

This retort angered Carrie.  She had had a dreary day of itherself.

"You needn't talk like that," she said.

"Oh!" he exclaimed, pushing back from the table, as if to saymore, but letting it go at that.  Then he picked up his paper.Carrie left her seat, containing herself with difficulty.  He sawshe was hurt.

"Don't go 'way," he said, as she started back into the kitchen."Eat your dinner."

She passed, not answering.

He looked at the paper a few moments, and then rose up and put onhis coat.

"I'm going downtown, Carrie," he said, coming out.  "I'm out ofsorts to-night."

She did not answer.

"Don't be angry," he said.  "It will be all right to morrow."

He looked at her, but she paid no attention to him, working ather dishes.

"Good-bye!" he said finally, and went out.

This was the first strong result of the situation between them,but with the nearing of the last day of the business the gloombecame almost a permanent thing.  Hurstwood could not conceal hisfeelings about the matter.  Carrie could not help wondering whereshe was drifting.  It got so that they talked even less thanusual, and yet it was not Hurstwood who felt any objection toCarrie.  It was Carrie who shied away from him.  This he noticed.It aroused an objection to her becoming indifferent to him.  Hemade the possibility of friendly intercourse almost a giant task,and then noticed with discontent that Carrie added to it by hermanner and made it more impossible.

At last the final day came.  When it actually arrived, Hurstwood,who had got his mind into such a state where a thunderclap andraging storm would have seemed highly appropriate, was ratherrelieved to find that it was a plain, ordinary day.  The sunshone, the temperature was pleasant.  He felt, as he came to thebreakfast table, that it wasn't so terrible, after all.

"Well," he said to Carrie, "to-day's my last day on earth."

Carrie smiled in answer to his humour.

Hurstwood glanced over his paper rather gayly.  He seemed to havelost a load.

"I'll go down for a little while," he said after breakfast, "andthen I'll look around.  To-morrow I'll spend the whole daylooking about.  I think I can get something, now this thing's offmy hands."

He went out smiling and visited the place.  Shaughnessy wasthere.  They had made all arrangements to share according totheir interests.  When, however, he had been there several hours,gone out three more, and returned, his elation had departed.  Asmuch as he had objected to the place, now that it was no longerto exist, he felt sorry.  He wished that things were different.

Shaughnessy was coolly businesslike.

"Well," he said at five o'clock, "we might as well count thechange and divide."

They did so.  The fixtures had already been sold and the sumdivided.

"Good-night," said Hurstwood at the final moment, in a lasteffort to be genial.

"So long," said Shaughnessy, scarcely deigning a notice.

Thus the Warren Street arrangement was permanently concluded.

Carrie had prepared a good dinner at the flat, but after his rideup, Hurstwood was in a solemn and reflective mood.

"Well?" said Carrie, inquisitively.

"I'm out of that," he answered, taking off his coat.

As she looked at him, she wondered what his financial state wasnow.  They ate and talked a little.

"Will you have enough to buy in anywhere else?" asked Carrie.

"No," he said.  "I'll have to get something else and save up."

"It would be nice if you could get some place," said Carrie,prompted by anxiety and hope.

"I guess I will," he said reflectively.

For some days thereafter he put on his overcoat regularly in themorning and sallied forth.  On these ventures he first consoledhimself with the thought that with the seven hundred dollars hehad he could still make some advantageous arrangement.  Hethought about going to some brewery, which, as he knew,frequently controlled saloons which they leased, and get them tohelp him.  Then he remembered that he would have to pay outseveral hundred any way for fixtures and that he would havenothing left for his monthly expenses.  It was costing him nearlyeighty dollars a month to live.

"No," he said, in his sanest moments, "I can't do it.  I'll getsomething else and save up."

This getting-something proposition complicated itself the momenthe began to think of what it was he wanted to do.  Manage aplace? Where should he get such a position? The papers containedno requests for managers.  Such positions, he knew well enough,were either secured by long years of service or were bought witha half or third interest.  Into a place important enough to needsuch a manager he had not money enough to buy.

Nevertheless, he started out.  His clothes were very good and hisappearance still excellent, but it involved the trouble ofdeluding.  People, looking at him, imagined instantly that a manof his age, stout and well dressed, must be well off.  Heappeared a comfortable owner of something, a man from whom thecommon run of mortals could well expect gratuities.  Being nowforty-three years of age, and comfortably built, walking was noteasy.  He had not been used to exercise for many years.  His legstired, his shoulders ached, and his feet pained him at the closeof the day, even when he took street cars in almost everydirection.  The mere getting up and down, if long continued,produced this result.

The fact that people took him to be better off than he was, hewell understood.  It was so painfully clear to him that itretarded his search.  Not that he wished to be less well-appearing, but that he was ashamed to belie his appearance byincongruous appeals.  So he hesitated, wondering what to do.

He thought of the hotels, but instantly he remembered that he hadhad no experience as a clerk, and, what was more important, noacquaintances or friends in that line to whom he could go.  Hedid know some hotel owners in several cities, including New York,but they knew of his dealings with Fitzgerald and Moy.  He couldnot apply to them.  He thought of other lines suggested by largebuildings or businesses which he knew of--wholesale groceries,hardware, insurance concerns, and the like--but he had had noexperience.

How to go about getting anything was a bitter thought.  Would hehave to go personally and ask; wait outside an office door, and,then, distinguished and affluent looking, announce that he waslooking for something to do? He strained painfully at thethought.  No, he could not do that.

He really strolled about, thinking, and then, the weather beingcold, stepped into a hotel.  He knew hotels well enough to knowthat any decent individual was welcome to a chair in the lobby.This was in the Broadway Central, which was then one of the mostimportant hotels in the city.  Taking a chair here was a painfulthing to him.  To think he should come to this! He had heardloungers about hotels called chairwarmers.  He had called themthat himself in his day.  But here he was, despite thepossibility of meeting some one who knew him, shielding himselffrom cold and the weariness of the streets in a hotel lobby.

"I can't do this way," he said to himself.  "There's no use of mystarting out mornings without first thinking up some place to go.I'll think of some places and then look them up."

It occurred to him that the positions of bartenders weresometimes open, but he put this out of his mind.  Bartender--he,the ex-manager!

It grew awfully dull sitting in the hotel lobby, and so at fourhe went home.  He tried to put on a business air as he went in,but it was a feeble imitation.  The rocking chair in the dining-room was comfortable.  He sank into it gladly, with severalpapers he had bought, and began to read.

As she was going through the room to begin preparing dinner,Carrie said:

"The man was here for the rent to-day."

"Oh, was he?" said Hurstwood.

The least wrinkle crept into his brow as he remembered that thiswas February 2d, the time the man always called.  He fished downin his pocket for his purse, getting the first taste of payingout when nothing is coming in.  He looked at the fat, green rollas a sick man looks at the one possible saving cure.  Then hecounted off twenty-eight dollars.

"Here you are," he said to Carrie, when she came through again.

He buried himself in his papers and read.  Oh, the rest of it--the relief from walking and thinking! What Lethean waters werethese floods of telegraphed intelligence! He forgot his troubles,in part.  Here was a young, handsome woman, if you might believethe newspaper drawing, suing a rich, fat, candy-making husband inBrooklyn for divorce.  Here was another item detailing thewrecking of a vessel in ice and snow off Prince's Bay on StatenIsland.  A long, bright column told of the doings in thetheatrical world--the plays produced, the actors appearing, themanagers making announcements.  Fannie Davenport was just openingat the Fifth Avenue.  Daly was producing "King Lear." He read ofthe early departure for the season of a party composed of theVanderbilts and their friends for Florida.  An interestingshooting affray was on in the mountains of Kentucky.  So he read,read, read, rocking in the warm room near the radiator andwaiting for dinner to be served.

Chapter XXXV

THE PASSING OF EFFORT--THE VISAGE OF CARE

The next morning he looked over the papers and waded through along list of advertisements, making a few notes.  Then he turnedto the male-help-wanted column, but with disagreeable feelings.The day was before him--a long day in which to discoversomething--and this was how he must begin to discover.  Hescanned the long column, which mostly concerned bakers,bushelmen, cooks, compositors, drivers, and the like, finding twothings only which arrested his eye.  One was a cashier wanted ina wholesale furniture house, and the other a salesman for awhiskey house.  He had never thought of the latter.  At once hedecided to look that up.

The firm in question was Alsbery & Co., whiskey brokers.

He was admitted almost at once to the manager on his appearance.

"Good-morning, sir," said the latter, thinking at first that hewas encountering one of his out-of-town customers.

"Good-morning," said Hurstwood.  "You advertised, I believe, fora salesman?"

"Oh," said the man, showing plainly the enlightenment which hadcome to him.  "Yes.  Yes, I did."

"I thought I'd drop in," said Hurstwood, with dignity.  "I've hadsome experience in that line myself."

"Oh, have you?" said the man.  "What experience have you had?"

"Well, I've managed several liquor houses in my time.  Recently Iowned a third-interest in a saloon at Warren and Hudson streets."

"I see," said the man.

Hurstwood ceased, waiting for some suggestion.

"We did want a salesman," said the man.  "I don't know as it'sanything you'd care to take hold of, though."

"I see," said Hurstwood.  "Well, I'm in no position to choose,just at present.  If it were open, I should be glad to get it."

The man did not take kindly at all to his "No position tochoose." He wanted some one who wasn't thinking of a choice orsomething better.  Especially not an old man.  He wanted some oneyoung, active, and glad to work actively for a moderate sum.Hurstwood did not please him at all.  He had more of an air thanhis employers.

"Well," he said in answer, "we'd be glad to consider yourapplication.  We shan't decide for a few days yet.  Suppose yousend us your references."

"I will," said Hurstwood.

He nodded good-morning and came away.  At the corner he looked atthe furniture company's address, and saw that it was in WestTwenty-third Street.  Accordingly, he went up there.  The placewas not large enough, however.  It looked moderate, the men in itidle and small salaried.  He walked by, glancing in, and thendecided not to go in there.

"They want a girl, probably, at ten a week," he said.

At one o'clock he thought of eating, and went to a restaurant inMadison Square.  There he pondered over places which he mightlook up.  He was tired.  It was blowing up grey again.  Acrossthe way, through Madison Square Park, stood the great hotels,looking down upon a busy scene.  He decided to go over to thelobby of one and sit a while.  It was warm in there and bright.He had seen no one he knew at the Broadway Central.  In alllikelihood he would encounter no one here.  Finding a seat on oneof the red plush divans close to the great windows which look outon Broadway's busy rout, he sat musing.  His state did not seemso bad in here.  Sitting still and looking out, he could takesome slight consolation in the few hundred dollars he had in hispurse.  He could forget, in a measure, the weariness of thestreet and his tiresome searches.  Still, it was only escape froma severe to a less severe state.  He was still gloomy anddisheartened.  There, minutes seemed to go very slowly.  An hourwas a long, long time in passing.  It was filled for him withobservations and mental comments concerning the actual guests ofthe hotel, who passed in and out, and those more prosperouspedestrians whose good fortune showed in their clothes andspirits as they passed along Broadway, outside.  It was nearlythe first time since he had arrived in the city that his leisureafforded him ample opportunity to contemplate this spectacle.Now, being, perforce, idle himself, he wondered at the activityof others.  How gay were the youths he saw, how pretty the women.Such fine clothes they all wore.  They were so intent upongetting somewhere.  He saw coquettish glances cast by magnificentgirls.  Ah, the money it required to train with such--how well heknew! How long it had been since he had had the opportunity to doso!

The clock outside registered four.  It was a little early, but hethought he would go back to the flat.

This going back to the flat was coupled with the thought thatCarrie would think he was sitting around too much if he came homeearly.  He hoped he wouldn't have to, but the day hung heavily onhis hands.  Over there he was on his own ground.  He could sit inhis rocking-chair and read.  This busy, distracting, suggestivescene was shut out.  He could read his papers.  Accordingly, hewent home.  Carrie was reading, quite alone.  It was rather darkin the flat, shut in as it was.

"You'll hurt your eyes," he said when he saw her.

After taking off his coat, he felt it incumbent upon him to makesome little report of his day.

"I've been talking with a wholesale liquor company," he said.  "Imay go on the road."

"Wouldn't that be nice!" said Carrie."It wouldn't be such a bad thing," he answered.

Always from the man at the corner now he bought two papers--the"Evening World" and "Evening Sun." So now he merely picked hispapers up, as he came by, without stopping.

He drew up his chair near the radiator and lighted the gas.  Thenit was as the evening before.  His difficulties vanished in theitems he so well loved to read.

The next day was even worse than the one before, because now hecould not think of where to go.  Nothing he saw in the papers hestudied--till ten o'clock--appealed to him.  He felt that heought to go out, and yet he sickened at the thought.  Where to,where to?

"You mustn't forget to leave me my money for this week," saidCarrie, quietly.

They had an arrangement by which he placed twelve dollars a weekin her hands, out of which to pay current expenses.  He heaved alittle sigh as she said this, and drew out his purse.  Again hefelt the dread of the thing.  Here he was taking off, taking off,and nothing coming in.

"Lord!" he said, in his own thoughts, "this can't go on."

To Carrie he said nothing whatsoever.  She could feel that herrequest disturbed him.  To pay her would soon become adistressing thing.

"Yet, what have I got to do with it?" she thought.  "Oh, whyshould I be made to worry?"

Hurstwood went out and made for Broadway.  He wanted to think upsome place.  Before long, though, he reached the Grand Hotel atThirty-first Street.  He knew of its comfortable lobby.  He wascold after his twenty blocks' walk.

"I'll go in their barber shop and get a shave," he thought.

Thus he justified himself in sitting down in here after histonsorial treatment.

Again, time hanging heavily on his hands, he went home early, andthis continued for several days, each day the need to huntpaining him, and each day disgust, depression, shamefacednessdriving him into lobby idleness.

At last three days came in which a storm prevailed, and he didnot go out at all.  The snow began to fall late one afternoon.It was a regular flurry of large, soft, white flakes.  In themorning it was still coming down with a high wind, and the papersannounced a blizzard.  From out the front windows one could see adeep, soft bedding.

"I guess I'll not try to go out to-day," he said to Carrie atbreakfast.  "It's going to be awful bad, so the papers say."

"The man hasn't brought my coal, either," said Carrie, whoordered by the bushel.

"I'll go over and see about it," said Hurstwood.  This was thefirst time he had ever suggested doing an errand, but, somehow,the wish to sit about the house prompted it as a sort ofcompensation for the privilege.

All day and all night it snowed, and the city began to sufferfrom a general blockade of traffic.  Great attention was given tothe details of the storm by the newspapers, which played up thedistress of the poor in large type.

Hurstwood sat and read by his radiator in the corner.  He did nottry to think about his need of work.  This storm being soterrific, and tying up all things, robbed him of the need.  Hemade himself wholly comfortable and toasted his feet.

Carrie observed his ease with some misgiving.  For all the furyof the storm she doubted his comfort.  He took his situation toophilosophically.

Hurstwood, however, read on and on.  He did not pay muchattention to Carrie.  She fulfilled her household duties and saidlittle to disturb him.

The next day it was still snowing, and the next, bitter cold.Hurstwood took the alarm of the paper and sat still.  Now hevolunteered to do a few other little things.  One was to go tothe butcher, another to the grocery.  He really thought nothingof these little services in connection with their truesignificance.  He felt as if he were not wholly useless--indeed,in such a stress of weather, quite worth while about the house.

On the fourth day, however, it cleared, and he read that thestorm was over.  Now, however, he idled, thinking how sloppy thestreets would be.

It was noon before he finally abandoned his papers and got underway.  Owing to the slightly warmer temperature the streets werebad.  He went across Fourteenth Street on the car and got atransfer south on Broadway.  One little advertisement he had,relating to a saloon down in Pearl Street.  When he reached theBroadway Central, however, he changed his mind.

"What's the use?" he thought, looking out upon the slop and snow."I couldn't buy into it.  It's a thousand to one nothing comes ofit.  I guess I'll get off," and off he got.  In the lobby he tooka seat and waited again, wondering what he could do.

While he was idly pondering, satisfied to be inside, a well-dressed man passed up the lobby, stopped, looked sharply, as ifnot sure of his memory, and then approached.  Hurstwoodrecognised Cargill, the owner of the large stables in Chicago ofthe same name, whom he had last seen at Avery Hall, the nightCarrie appeared there.  The remembrance of how this individualbrought up his wife to shake hands on that occasion was also onthe instant clear.

Hurstwood was greatly abashed.  His eyes expressed the difficultyhe felt.

"Why, it's Hurstwood!" said Cargill, remembering now, and sorrythat he had not recognised him quickly enough in the beginning tohave avoided this meeting.

"Yes," said Hurstwood.  "How are you?"

"Very well," said Cargill, troubled for something to talk about."Stopping here?"

"No," said Hurstwood, "just keeping an appointment.""I knew you had left Chicago.  I was wondering what had become ofyou."

"Oh, I'm here now," answered Hurstwood, anxious to get away.

"Doing well, I suppose?"

"Excellent."

"Glad to hear it."

They looked at one another, rather embarrassed.

"Well, I have an engagement with a friend upstairs.  I'll leaveyou.  So long."

Hurstwood nodded his head.

"Damn it all," he murmured, turning toward the door.  "I knewthat would happen."

He walked several blocks up the street.  His watch onlyregistered 1.30.  He tried to think of some place to go orsomething to do.  The day was so bad he wanted only to be inside.Finally his feet began to feel wet and cold, and he boarded acar.  This took him to Fifty-ninth Street, which was as good asanywhere else.  Landed here, he turned to walk back along SeventhAvenue, but the slush was too much.  The misery of lounging aboutwith nowhere to go became intolerable.  He felt as if he werecatching cold.

Stopping at a corner, he waited for a car south bound.  This wasno day to be out; he would go home.

Carrie was surprised to see him at a quarter of three.

"It's a miserable day out," was all he said.  Then he took offhis coat and changed his shoes.

That night he felt a cold coming on and took quinine.  He wasfeverish until morning, and sat about the next day while Carriewaited on him.  He was a helpless creature in sickness, not veryhandsome in a dull-coloured bath gown and his hair uncombed.  Helooked haggard about the eyes and quite old.  Carrie noticedthis, and it did not appeal to her.  She wanted to be good-natured and sympathetic, but something about the man held heraloof.

Toward evening he looked so badly in the weak light that shesuggested he go to bed.

"You'd better sleep alone," she said, "you'll feel better.  I'llopen your bed for you now."

"All right," he said.

As she did all these things, she was in a most despondent state.

"What a life! What a life!" was her one thought.

Once during the day, when he sat near the radiator, hunched upand reading, she passed through, and seeing him, wrinkled herbrows.  In the front room, where it was not so warm, she sat bythe window and cried.  This was the life cut out for her, was it?To live cooped up in a small flat with some one who was out ofwork, idle, and indifferent to her.  She was merely a servant tohim now, nothing more.

This crying made her eyes red, and when, in preparing his bed,she lighted the gas, and, having prepared it, called him in, henoticed the fact.

"What's the matter with you?" he asked, looking into her face.His voice was hoarse and his unkempt head only added to itsgrewsome quality.

"Nothing," said Carrie, weakly.

"You've been crying," he said.

"I haven't, either," she answered.

It was not for love of him, that he knew.

"You needn't cry," he said, getting into bed.  "Things will comeout all right."

In a day or two he was up again, but rough weather holding, hestayed in.  The Italian newsdealer now delivered the morningpapers, and these he read assiduously.  A few times after that heventured out, but meeting another of his old-time friends, hebegan to feel uneasy sitting about hotel corridors.

Every day he came home early, and at last made no pretence ofgoing anywhere.  Winter was no time to look for anything.

Naturally, being about the house, he noticed the way Carrie didthings.  She was far from perfect in household methods andeconomy, and her little deviations on this score first caught hiseye.  Not, however, before her regular demand for her allowancebecame a grievous thing.  Sitting around as he did, the weeksseemed to pass very quickly.  Every Tuesday Carrie asked for hermoney.

"Do you think we live as cheaply as we might?" he asked oneTuesday morning.

"I do the best I can," said Carrie.

Nothing was added to this at the moment, but the next day hesaid:

"Do you ever go to the Gansevoort Market over here?"

"I didn't know there was such a market," said Carrie.

"They say you can get things lots cheaper there."

Carrie was very indifferent to the suggestion.  These were thingswhich she did not like at all.

"How much do you pay for a pound of meat?" he asked one day.

"Oh, there are different prices," said Carrie.  "Sirloin steak istwenty-two cents."

"That's steep, isn't it?" he answered.

So he asked about other things, until finally, with the passingdays, it seemed to become a mania with him.  He learned theprices and remembered them.His errand-running capacity also improved.  It began in a smallway, of course.  Carrie, going to get her hat one morning, wasstopped by him.

"Where are you going, Carrie?" he asked.

"Over to the baker's," she answered.

"I'd just as leave go for you," he said.

She acquiesced, and he went.  Each afternoon he would go to thecorner for the papers.

"Is there anything you want?" he would say.

By degrees she began to use him.  Doing this, however, she lostthe weekly payment of twelve dollars.

"You want to pay me to-day," she said one Tuesday, about thistime.

"How much?" he asked.

She understood well enough what it meant.

"Well, about five dollars," she answered.  "I owe the coal man."

The same day he said:

"I think this Italian up here on the corner sells coal at twenty-five cents a bushel.  I'll trade with him."

Carrie heard this with indifference.

"All right," she said.

Then it came to be:

"George, I must have some coal to-day," or, "You must get somemeat of some kind for dinner."

He would find out what she needed and order.

Accompanying this plan came skimpiness.

"I only got a half-pound of steak," he said, coming in oneafternoon with his papers.  "We never seem to eat very much."

These miserable details ate the heart out of Carrie.  Theyblackened her days and grieved her soul.  Oh, how this man hadchanged!  All day and all day, here he sat, reading his papers.The world seemed to have no attraction.  Once in a while he wouldgo out, in fine weather, it might be four or five hours, betweeneleven and four.  She could do nothing but view him with gnawingcontempt.

It was apathy with Hurstwood, resulting from his inability to seehis way out.  Each month drew from his small store.  Now, he hadonly five hundred dollars left, and this he hugged, half feelingas if he could stave off absolute necessity for an indefiniteperiod.  Sitting around the house, he decided to wear some oldclothes he had.  This came first with the bad days.  Only once heapologised in the very beginning:

"It's so bad to-day, I'll just wear these around."Eventually these became the permanent thing.

Also, he had been wont to pay fifteen cents for a shave, and atip of ten cents.  In his first distress, he cut down the tip tofive, then to nothing.  Later, he tried a ten-cent barber shop,and, finding that the shave was satisfactory, patronisedregularly.  Later still, he put off shaving to every other day,then to every third, and so on, until once a week became therule.  On Saturday he was a sight to see.

Of course, as his own self-respect vanished, it perished for himin Carrie.  She could not understand what had gotten into theman.  He had some money, he had a decent suit remaining, he wasnot bad looking when dressed up.  She did not forget her owndifficult struggle in Chicago, but she did not forget either thatshe had never ceased trying.  He never tried.  He did not evenconsult the ads in the papers any more.

Finally, a distinct impression escaped from her.

"What makes you put so much butter on the steak?" he asked herone evening, standing around in the kitchen.

"To make it good, of course," she answered.

"Butter is awful dear these days," he suggested.

"You wouldn't mind it if you were working," she answered.

He shut up after this, and went in to his paper, but the retortrankled in his mind.  It was the first cutting remark that hadcome from her.

That same evening, Carrie, after reading, went off to the frontroom to bed.  This was unusual.  When Hurstwood decided to go, heretired, as usual, without a light.  It was then that hediscovered Carrie's absence.

"That's funny," he said; "maybe she's sitting up."

He gave the matter no more thought, but slept.  In the morningshe was not beside him.  Strange to say, this passed withoutcomment.

Night approaching, and a slightly more conversational feelingprevailing, Carrie said:

"I think I'll sleep alone to-night.  I have a headache."

"All right," said Hurstwood.

The third night she went to her front bed without apologies.

This was a grim blow to Hurstwood, but he never mentioned it.

"All right," he said to himself, with an irrepressible frown,"let her sleep alone."

Chapter XXXVI

A GRIM RETROGRESSION--THE PHANTOM OF CHANCE

The Vances, who had been back in the city ever since Christmas,had not forgotten Carrie; but they, or rather Mrs. Vance, hadnever called on her, for the very simple reason that Carrie hadnever sent her address.  True to her nature, she correspondedwith Mrs. Vance as long as she still lived in Seventy-eighthStreet, but when she was compelled to move into Thirteenth, herfear that the latter would take it as an indication of reducedcircumstances caused her to study some way of avoiding thenecessity of giving her address.  Not finding any convenientmethod, she sorrowfully resigned the privilege of writing to herfriend entirely.  The latter wondered at this strange silence,thought Carrie must have left the city, and in the end gave herup as lost.  So she was thoroughly surprised to encounter her inFourteenth Street, where she had gone shopping.  Carrie was therefor the same purpose.

"Why, Mrs. Wheeler," said Mrs. Vance, looking Carrie over in aglance, "where have you been? Why haven't you been to see me?I've been wondering all this time what had become of you.Really, I----"

"I'm so glad to see you," said Carrie, pleased and yetnonplussed.  Of all times, this was the worst to encounter Mrs.Vance.  "Why, I'm living down town here.  I've been intending tocome and see you.  Where are you living now?"

"In Fifty-eighth Street," said Mrs. Vance, "just off SeventhAvenue--218.  Why don't you come and see me?"

"I will," said Carrie.  "Really, I've been wanting to come.  Iknow I ought to.  It's a shame.  But you know----"

"What's your number?" said Mrs. Vance.

"Thirteenth Street," said Carrie, reluctantly.  "112 West."

"Oh," said Mrs. Vance, "that's right near here, isn't it?"

"Yes," said Carrie.  "You must come down and see me some time."

"Well, you're a fine one," said Mrs. Vance, laughing, the whilenoting that Carrie's appearance had modified somewhat.  "Theaddress, too," she added to herself.  "They must be hard up."

Still she liked Carrie well enough to take her in tow.

"Come with me in here a minute," she exclaimed, turning into astore.

When Carrie returned home, there was Hurstwood, reading as usual.He seemed to take his condition with the utmost nonchalance.  Hisbeard was at least four days old.

"Oh," thought Carrie, "if she were to come here and see him?"

She shook her head in absolute misery.  It looked as if hersituation was becoming unbearable.

Driven to desperation, she asked at dinner:

"Did you ever hear any more from that wholesale house?"

"No," he said.  "They don't want an inexperienced man."

Carrie dropped the subject, feeling unable to say more.

"I met Mrs. Vance this afternoon," she said, after a time.

"Did, eh?" he answered.

"They're back in New York now," Carrie went on.  "She did look sonice."

"Well, she can afford it as long as he puts up for it," returnedHurstwood.  "He's got a soft job."

Hurstwood was looking into the paper.  He could not see the lookof infinite weariness and discontent Carrie gave him.

"She said she thought she'd call here some day."

"She's been long getting round to it, hasn't she?" saidHurstwood, with a kind of sarcasm.

The woman didn't appeal to him from her spending side.

"Oh, I don't know," said Carrie, angered by the man's attitude."Perhaps I didn't want her to come."

"She's too gay," said Hurstwood, significantly.  "No one can keepup with her pace unless they've got a lot of money."

"Mr. Vance doesn't seem to find it very hard."

"He may not now," answered Hurstwood, doggedly, wellunderstanding the inference; "but his life isn't done yet.  Youcan't tell what'll happen.  He may get down like anybody else."

There was something quite knavish in the man's attitude.  His eyeseemed to be cocked with a twinkle upon the fortunate, expectingtheir defeat.  His own state seemed a thing apart--notconsidered.

This thing was the remains of his old-time cocksureness andindependence.  Sitting in his flat, and reading of the doings ofother people, sometimes this independent, undefeated mood cameupon him.  Forgetting the weariness of the streets and thedegradation of search, he would sometimes prick up his ears.  Itwas as if he said:

"I can do something.  I'm not down yet.  There's a lot of thingscoming to me if I want to go after them."

It was in this mood that he would occasionally dress up, go for ashave, and, putting on his gloves, sally forth quite actively.Not with any definite aim.  It was more a barometric condition.He felt just right for being outside and doing something.

On such occasions, his money went also.  He knew of several pokerrooms down town.  A few acquaintances he had in downtown resortsand about the City Hall.  It was a change to see them andexchange a few friendly commonplaces.

He had once been accustomed to hold a pretty fair hand at poker.Many a friendly game had netted him a hundred dollars or more atthe time when that sum was merely sauce to the dish of the game--not the all in all.  Now, he thought of playing.

"I might win a couple of hundred.  I'm not out of practice."

It is but fair to say that this thought had occurred to himseveral times before he acted upon it.The poker room which he first invaded was over a saloon in WestStreet, near one of the ferries.  He had been there before.Several games were going.  These he watched for a time andnoticed that the pots were quite large for the ante involved.

"Deal me a hand," he said at the beginning of a new shuffle.  Hepulled up a chair and studied his cards.  Those playing made thatquiet study of him which is so unapparent, and yet invariably sosearching.

Poor fortune was with him at first.  He received a mixedcollection without progression or pairs.  The pot was opened.

"I pass," he said.

On the strength of this, he was content to lose his ante.  Thedeals did fairly by him in the long run, causing him to come awaywith a few dollars to the good.

The next afternoon he was back again, seeking amusement andprofit.  This time he followed up three of a kind to his doom.There was a better hand across the table, held by a pugnaciousIrish youth, who was a political hanger-on of the Tammanydistrict in which they were located.  Hurstwood was surprised atthe persistence of this individual, whose bets came with a sang-froid which, if a bluff, was excellent art.  Hurstwood began todoubt, but kept, or thought to keep, at least, the cool demeanourwith which, in olden times, he deceived those psychic students ofthe gaming table, who seem to read thoughts and moods, ratherthan exterior evidences, however subtle.  He could not down thecowardly thought that this man had something better and wouldstay to the end, drawing his last dollar into the pot, should hechoose to go so far.  Still, he hoped to win much--his hand wasexcellent.  Why not raise it five more?

"I raise you three," said the youth.

"Make it five," said Hurstwood, pushing out his chips.

"Come again," said the youth, pushing out a small pile of reds.

"Let me have some more chips," said Hurstwood to the keeper incharge, taking out a bill.

A cynical grin lit up the face of his youthful opponent.  Whenthe chips were laid out, Hurstwood met the raise.

"Five again," said the youth.

Hurstwood's brow was wet.  He was deep in now--very deep for him.Sixty dollars of his good money was up.  He was ordinarily nocoward, but the thought of losing so much weakened him.  Finallyhe gave way.  He would not trust to this fine hand any longer.

"I call," he said.

"A full house!" said the youth, spreading out his cards.

Hurstwood's hand dropped.

"I thought I had you," he said, weakly.

The youth raked in his chips, and Hurstwood came away, notwithout first stopping to count his remaining cash on the stair.

"Three hundred and forty dollars," he said.

With this loss and ordinary expenses, so much had already gone.

Back in the flat, he decided he would play no more.

Remembering Mrs. Vance's promise to call, Carrie made one othermild protest.  It was concerning Hurstwood's appearance.  Thisvery day, coming home, he changed his clothes to the old togs hesat around in.

"What makes you always put on those old clothes?" asked Carrie.

"What's the use wearing my good ones around here?" he asked.

"Well, I should think you'd feel better." Then she added: "Someone might call."

"Who?" he said.

"Well, Mrs. Vance," said Carrie.

"She needn't see me," he answered, sullenly.

This lack of pride and interest made Carrie almost hate him.

"Oh," she thought, "there he sits.  'She needn't see me.' Ishould think he would be ashamed of himself."

The real bitterness of this thing was added when Mrs. Vance didcall.  It was on one of her shopping rounds.  Making her way upthe commonplace hall, she knocked at Carrie's door.  To hersubsequent and agonising distress, Carrie was out.  Hurstwoodopened the door, half-thinking that the knock was Carrie's.  Foronce, he was taken honestly aback.  The lost voice of youth andpride spoke in him.

"Why," he said, actually stammering, "how do you do?"

"How do you do?" said Mrs. Vance, who could scarcely believe hereyes.  His great confusion she instantly perceived.  He did notknow whether to invite her in or not.

"Is your wife at home?" she inquired.

"No," he said, "Carrie's out; but won't you step in? She'll beback shortly."

"No-o," said Mrs. Vance, realising the change of it all.  "I'mreally very much in a hurry.  I thought I'd just run up and lookin, but I couldn't stay.  Just tell your wife she must come andsee me."

"I will," said Hurstwood, standing back, and feeling intenserelief at her going.  He was so ashamed that he folded his handsweakly, as he sat in the chair afterwards, and thought.

Carrie, coming in from another direction, thought she saw Mrs.Vance going away.  She strained her eyes, but could not makesure.

"Was anybody here just now?" she asked of Hurstwood.

"Yes," he said guiltily; "Mrs. Vance."

"Did she see you?" she asked, expressing her full despair.This cut Hurstwood like a whip, and made him sullen.

"If she had eyes, she did.  I opened the door."

"Oh," said Carrie, closing one hand tightly out of sheernervousness.  "What did she have to say?"

"Nothing," he answered.  "She couldn't stay."

"And you looking like that!" said Carrie, throwing aside a longreserve.

"What of it?" he said, angering.  "I didn't know she was coming,did I?"

"You knew she might," said Carrie.  "I told you she said she wascoming.  I've asked you a dozen times to wear your other clothes.Oh, I think this is just terrible."

"Oh, let up," he answered.  "What difference does it make? Youcouldn't associate with her, anyway.  They've got too much money.

"Who said I wanted to?" said Carrie, fiercely.

"Well, you act like it, rowing around over my looks.  You'd thinkI'd committed----"

Carrie interrupted:

"It's true," she said.  "I couldn't if I wanted to, but whosefault is it? You're very free to sit and talk about who I couldassociate with.  Why don't you get out and look for work?"

This was a thunderbolt in camp.

"What's it to you?" he said, rising, almost fiercely.  "I pay therent, don't I? I furnish the----"

"Yes, you pay the rent," said Carrie.  "You talk as if there wasnothing else in the world but a flat to sit around in.  Youhaven't done a thing for three months except sit around andinterfere here.  I'd like to know what you married me for?"

"I didn't marry you," he said, in a snarling tone.

"I'd like to know what you did, then, in Montreal?" she answered.

"Well, I didn't marry you," he answered.  "You can get that outof your head.  You talk as though you didn't know."

Carrie looked at him a moment, her eyes distending.  She hadbelieved it was all legal and binding enough.

"What did you lie to me for, then?" she asked, fiercely.  "Whatdid you force me to run away with you for?"

Her voice became almost a sob.

"Force!" he said, with curled lip.  "A lot of forcing I did."

"Oh!" said Carrie, breaking under the strain, and turning.  "Oh,oh!" and she hurried into the front room.

Hurstwood was now hot and waked up.  It was a great shaking upfor him, both mental and moral.  He wiped his brow as he lookedaround, and then went for his clothes and dressed.  Not a soundcame from Carrie; she ceased sobbing when she heard him dressing.She thought, at first, with the faintest alarm, of being leftwithout money--not of losing him, though he might be going awaypermanently.  She heard him open the top of the wardrobe and takeout his hat.  Then the dining-room door closed, and she knew hehad gone.

After a few moments of silence, she stood up, dry-eyed, andlooked out the window.  Hurstwood was just strolling up thestreet, from the flat, toward Sixth Avenue.

The latter made progress along Thirteenth and across FourteenthStreet to Union Square.

"Look for work!" he said to himself.  "Look for work! She tellsme to get out and look for work."

He tried to shield himself from his own mental accusation, whichtold him that she was right.

"What a cursed thing that Mrs. Vance's call was, anyhow," hethought.  "Stood right there, and looked me over.  I know whatshe was thinking."

He remembered the few times he had seen her in Seventy-eightStreet.  She was always a swell-looker, and he had tried to puton the air of being worthy of such as she, in front of her.  Now,to think she had caught him looking this way.  He wrinkled hisforehead in his distress.

"The devil!" he said a dozen times in an hour.

It was a quarter after four when he left the house.  Carrie wasin tears.  There would be no dinner that night.

"What the deuce," he said, swaggering mentally to hide his ownshame from himself.  "I'm not so bad.  I'm not down yet."

He looked around the square, and seeing the several large hotels,decided to go to one for dinner.  He would get his papers andmake himself comfortable there.

He ascended into the fine parlour of the Morton House, then oneof the best New York hotels, and, finding a cushioned seat, read.It did not trouble him much that his decreasing sum of money didnot allow of such extravagance.  Like the morphine fiend, he wasbecoming addicted to his ease.  Anything to relieve his mentaldistress, to satisfy his craving for comfort.  He must do it.  Nothoughts for the morrow--he could not stand to think of it anymore than he could of any other calamity.  Like the certainty ofdeath, he tried to shut the certainty of soon being without adollar completely out of his mind, and he came very near doingit.

Well-dressed guests moving to and fro over the thick carpetscarried him back to the old days.  A young lady, a guest of thehouse, playing a piano in an alcove pleased him.  He sat therereading.

His dinner cost him $1.50.  By eight o'clock he was through, andthen, seeing guests leaving and the crowd of pleasure-seekersthickening outside wondered where he should go.  Not home.Carrie would be up.  No, he would not go back there this evening.He would stay out and knock around as a man who was independent--not broke--well might.  He bought a cigar, and went outside onthe corner where other individuals were lounging--brokers, racingpeople, thespians--his own flesh and blood.  As he stood there,he thought of the old evenings in Chicago, and how he used todispose of them.  Many's the game he had had.  This took him topoker.

"I didn't do that thing right the other day," he thought,referring to his loss of sixty dollars.  "I shouldn't haveweakened.  I could have bluffed that fellow down.  I wasn't inform, that's what ailed me."

Then he studied the possibilities of the game as it had beenplayed, and began to figure how he might have won, in severalinstances, by bluffing a little harder.

"I'm old enough to play poker and do something with it.  I'll trymy hand to-night."

Visions of a big stake floated before him.  Supposing he did wina couple of hundred, wouldn't he be in it? Lots of sports he knewmade their living at this game, and a good living, too.

"They always had as much as I had," he thought.

So off he went to a poker room in the neighbourhood, feeling muchas he had in the old days.  In this period of self-forgetfulness,aroused first by the shock of argument and perfected by a dinnerin the hotel, with cocktails and cigars, he was as nearly likethe old Hurstwood as he would ever be again.  It was not the oldHurstwood--only a man arguing with a divided conscience and luredby a phantom.

This poker room was much like the other one, only it was a backroom in a better drinking resort.  Hurstwood watched a while, andthen, seeing an interesting game, joined in.  As before, it wenteasy for a while, he winning a few times and cheering up, losinga few pots and growing more interested and determined on thataccount.  At last the fascinating game took a strong hold on him.He enjoyed its risks and ventured, on a trifling hand, to bluffthe company and secure a fair stake.  To his self-satisfactionintense and strong, he did it.

In the height of this feeling he began to think his luck was withhim.  No one else had done so well.  Now came another moderatehand, and again he tried to open the jack-pot on it.  There wereothers there who were almost reading his heart, so close wastheir observation.

"I have three of a kind," said one of the players to himself."I'll just stay with that fellow to the finish."

The result was that bidding began.

"I raise you ten."

"Good."

"Ten more."

"Good."

"Ten again."

"Right you are."

It got to where Hurstwood had seventy-five dollars up.  The otherman really became serious.  Perhaps this individual (Hurstwood)really did have a stiff hand.

"I call," he said.

Hurstwood showed his hand.  He was done.  The bitter fact that hehad lost seventy-five dollars made him desperate.

"Let's have another pot," he said, grimly.

"All right," said the man.

Some of the other players quit, but observant loungers took theirplaces.  Time passed, and it came to twelve o'clock.  Hurstwoodheld on, neither winning nor losing much.  Then he grew weary,and on a last hand lost twenty more.  He was sick at heart.

At a quarter after one in the morning he came out of the place.The chill, bare streets seemed a mockery of his state.  He walkedslowly west, little thinking of his row with Carrie.  He ascendedthe stairs and went into his room as if there had been notrouble.  It was his loss that occupied his mind.  Sitting downon the bedside he counted his money.  There was now but a hundredand ninety dollars and some change.  He put it up and began toundress.

"I wonder what's getting into me, anyhow?" he said.

In the morning Carrie scarcely spoke and he felt as if he must goout again.  He had treated her badly, but he could not afford tomake up.  Now desperation seized him, and for a day or two, goingout thus, he lived like a gentleman--or what he conceived to be agentleman--which took money.  For his escapades he was soonpoorer in mind and body, to say nothing of his purse, which hadlost thirty by the process.  Then he came down to cold, bittersense again.

"The rent man comes to-day," said Carrie, greeting him thusindifferently three mornings later.

"He does?"

"Yes; this is the second," answered Carrie.

Hurstwood frowned.  Then in despair he got out his purse.

"It seems an awful lot to pay for rent," he said.

He was nearing his last hundred dollars.

Chapter XXXVII

THE SPIRIT AWAKENS--NEW SEARCH FOR THE GATE

It would be useless to explain how in due time the last fiftydollars was in sight.  The seven hundred, by his process ofhandling, had only carried them into June.  Before the finalhundred mark was reached he began to indicate that a calamity wasapproaching.

"I don't know," he said one day, taking a trivial expenditure formeat as a text, "it seems to take an awful lot for us to live."

"It doesn't seem to me," said Carrie, "that we spend very much."

"My money is nearly gone," he said, "and I hardly know where it'sgone to."

"All that seven hundred dollars?" asked Carrie.

"All but a hundred."

He looked so disconsolate that it scared her.  She began to seethat she herself had been drifting.  She had felt it all thetime.

"Well, George," she exclaimed, "why don't you get out and lookfor something? You could find something."

"I have looked," he said.  "You can t make people give you aplace."

She gazed weakly at him and said: "Well, what do you think youwill do? A hundred dollars won't last long."

"I don't know," he said.  "I can't do any more than look."

Carrie became frightened over this announcement.  She thoughtdesperately upon the subject.  Frequently she had considered thestage as a door through which she might enter that gilded statewhich she had so much craved.  Now, as in Chicago, it came as alast resource in distress.  Something must be done if he did notget work soon.  Perhaps she would have to go out and battle againalone.

She began to wonder how one would go about getting a place.  Herexperience in Chicago proved that she had not tried the rightway.  There must be people who would listen to and try you--menwho would give you an opportunity.

They were talking at the breakfast table, a morning or two later,when she brought up the dramatic subject by saying that she sawthat Sarah Bernhardt was coming to this country.  Hurstwood hadseen it, too.

"How do people get on the stage, George?" she finally asked,innocently.

"I don't know," he said.  "There must be dramatic agents."

Carrie was sipping coffee, and did not look up.

"Regular people who get you a place?"

"Yes, I think so," he answered.

Suddenly the air with which she asked attracted his attention.

"You're not still thinking about being an actress, are you?" heasked.

"No," she answered, "I was just wondering."

Without being clear, there was something in the thought which heobjected to.  He did not believe any more, after three years ofobservation, that Carrie would ever do anything great in thatline.  She seemed too simple, too yielding.  His idea of the artwas that it involved something more pompous.  If she tried to geton the stage she would fall into the hands of some cheap managerand become like the rest of them.  He had a good idea of what hemeant by THEM.  Carrie was pretty.  She would get along allright, but where would he be?

"I'd get that idea out of my head, if I were you.  It's a lotmore difficult than you think."

Carrie felt this to contain, in some way, an aspersion upon herability.

"You said I did real well in Chicago," she rejoined.

"You did," he answered, seeing that he was arousing opposition,"but Chicago isn't New York, by a big jump."

Carrie did not answer this at all.  It hurt her.

"The stage," he went on, "is all right if you can be one of thebig guns, but there's nothing to the rest of it.  It takes a longwhile to get up."

"Oh, I don't know," said Carrie, slightly aroused.

In a flash, he thought he foresaw the result of this thing.  Now,when the worst of his situation was approaching, she would get onthe stage in some cheap way and forsake him.  Strangely, he hadnot conceived well of her mental ability.  That was because hedid not understand the nature of emotional greatness.  He hadnever learned that a person might be emotionally--instead ofintellectually--great.  Avery Hall was too far away for him tolook back and sharply remember.  He had lived with this woman toolong.

"Well, I do," he answered.  "If I were you I wouldn't think ofit.  It's not much of a profession for a woman."

"It's better than going hungry," said Carrie.  "If you don't wantme to do that, why don't you get work yourself?"

There was no answer ready for this.  He had got used to thesuggestion.

"Oh, let up," he answered.

The result of this was that she secretly resolved to try.  Itdidn't matter about him.  She was not going to be dragged intopoverty and something worse to suit him.  She could act.  Shecould get something and then work up.  What would he say then?She pictured herself already appearing in some fine performanceon Broadway; of going every evening to her dressing-room andmaking up.  Then she would come out at eleven o'clock and see thecarriages ranged about, waiting for the people.  It did notmatter whether she was the star or not.  If she were only oncein, getting a decent salary, wearing the kind of clothes sheliked, having the money to do with, going here and there as shepleased, how delightful it would all be.  Her mind ran over thispicture all the day long.  Hurstwood's dreary state made itsbeauty become more and more vivid.

Curiously this idea soon took hold of Hurstwood.  His vanishingsum suggested that he would need sustenance.  Why could notCarrie assist him a little until he could get something?

He came in one day with something of this idea in his mind.

"I met John B. Drake to-day," he said.  "He's going to open ahotel here in the fall.  He says that he can make a place for methen."

"Who is he?" asked Carrie.

"He's the man that runs the Grand Pacific in Chicago."

"Oh," said Carrie.

"I'd get about fourteen hundred a year out of that."

"That would be good, wouldn't it?" she said, sympathetically.

"If I can only get over this summer," he added, "I think I'll beall right.  I'm hearing from some of my friends again."

Carrie swallowed this story in all its pristine beauty.  Shesincerely wished he could get through the summer.  He looked sohopeless.

"How much money have you left?"

"Only fifty dollars."

"Oh, mercy," she exclaimed, "what will we do? It's only twentydays until the rent will be due again."

Hurstwood rested his head on his hands and looked blankly at thefloor.

"Maybe you could get something in the stage line?" he blandlysuggested.

"Maybe I could," said Carrie, glad that some one approved of theidea.

"I'll lay my hand to whatever I can get," he said, now that hesaw her brighten up.  "I can get something."

She cleaned up the things one morning after he had gone, dressedas neatly as her wardrobe permitted, and set out for Broadway.She did not know that thoroughfare very well.  To her it was awonderful conglomeration of everything great and mighty.  Thetheatres were there--these agencies must be somewhere about.

She decided to stop in at the Madison Square Theatre and ask howto find the theatrical agents.  This seemed the sensible way.Accordingly, when she reached that theatre she applied to theclerk at the box office.

"Eh?" he said, looking out.  "Dramatic agents? I don't know.You'll find them in the 'Clipper,' though.  They all advertise inthat."

"Is that a paper?" said Carrie.

"Yes," said the clerk, marvelling at such ignorance of a commonfact.  "You can get it at the news-stands," he added politely,seeing how pretty the inquirer was.

Carrie proceeded to get the "Clipper," and tried to find theagents by looking over it as she stood beside the stand.  Thiscould not be done so easily.  Thirteenth Street was a number ofblocks off, but she went back, carrying the precious paper andregretting the waste of time.

Hurstwood was already there, sitting in his place.

"Where were you?" he asked.

"I've been trying to find some dramatic agents."

He felt a little diffident about asking concerning her success.The paper she began to scan attracted his attention.

"What have you got there?" he asked.

"The 'Clipper.' The man said I'd find their addresses in here."

"Have you been all the way over to Broadway to find that out? Icould have told you."

"Why didn't you?" she asked, without looking up.

"You never asked me," he returned.

She went hunting aimlessly through the crowded columns.  Her mindwas distracted by this man's indifference.  The difficulty of thesituation she was facing was only added to by all he did.  Self-commiseration brewed in her heart.  Tears trembled along hereyelids but did not fall.  Hurstwood noticed something.

"Let me look."

To recover herself she went into the front room while hesearched.  Presently she returned.  He had a pencil, and waswriting upon an envelope.

"Here're three," he said.

Carrie took it and found that one was Mrs. Bermudez, anotherMarcus Jenks, a third Percy Weil.  She paused only a moment, andthen moved toward the door.

"I might as well go right away," she said, without looking back.

Hurstwood saw her depart with some faint stirrings of shame,which were the expression of a manhood rapidly becomingstultified.  He sat a while, and then it became too much.  He gotup and put on his hat.

"I guess I'll go out," he said to himself, and went, strollingnowhere in particular, but feeling somehow that he must go.

Carrie's first call was upon Mrs. Bermudez, whose address wasquite the nearest.  It was an old-fashioned residence turned intooffices.  Mrs. Bermudez's offices consisted of what formerly hadbeen a back chamber and a hall bedroom, marked "Private."

As Carrie entered she noticed several persons lounging about--men, who said nothing and did nothing.

While she was waiting to be noticed, the door of the hall bedroomopened and from it issued two very mannish-looking women, verytightly dressed, and wearing white collars and cuffs.  After themcame a portly lady of about forty-five, light-haired, sharp-eyed,and evidently good-natured.  At least she was smiling.

"Now, don't forget about that," said one of the mannish women.

"I won't," said the portly woman.  "Let's see," she added, "whereare you the first week in February?""Pittsburg," said the woman.

"I'll write you there."

"All right," said the other, and the two passed out.

Instantly the portly lady's face became exceedingly sober andshrewd.  She turned about and fixed on Carrie a very searchingeye.

"Well," she said, "young woman, what can I do for you?"

"Are you Mrs. Bermudez?"

"Yes."

"Well," said Carrie, hesitating how to begin, "do you get placesfor persons upon the stage?"

"Yes."

"Could you get me one?"

"Have you ever had any experience?"

"A very little," said Carrie.

"Whom did you play with?"

"Oh, with no one," said Carrie.  "It was just a show gotten----"

"Oh, I see," said the woman, interrupting her.  "No, I don't knowof anything now."

Carrie's countenance fell.

"You want to get some New York experience," concluded the affableMrs. Bermudez.  "We'll take your name, though."

Carrie stood looking while the lady retired to her office.

"What is your address?" inquired a young lady behind the counter,taking up the curtailed conversation.

"Mrs. George Wheeler," said Carrie, moving over to where she waswriting.  The woman wrote her address in full and then allowedher to depart at her leisure.

She encountered a very similar experience in the office of Mr.Jenks, only he varied it by saying at the close: "If you couldplay at some local house, or had a programme with your name onit, I might do something."

In the third place the individual asked:

"What sort of work do you want to do?"

"What do you mean?" said Carrie.

"Well, do you want to get in a comedy or on the vaudeville or inthe chorus?"

"Oh, I'd like to get a part in a play," said Carrie.

"Well," said the man, "it'll cost you something to do that.""How much?" said Carrie, who, ridiculous as it may seem, had notthought of this before.

"Well, that's for you to say," he answered shrewdly.

Carrie looked at him curiously.  She hardly knew how to continuethe inquiry.

"Could you get me a part if I paid?"

"If we didn't you'd get your money back."

"Oh," she said.

The agent saw he was dealing with an inexperienced soul, andcontinued accordingly.

"You'd want to deposit fifty dollars, anyway.  No agent wouldtrouble about you for less than that."

Carrie saw a light.

"Thank you," she said.  "I'll think about it."

She started to go, and then bethought herself.

"How soon would I get a place?" she asked.

"Well, that's hard to say," said the man.  "You might get one ina week, or it might be a month.  You'd get the first thing thatwe thought you could do."

"I see," said Carrie, and then, half-smiling to be agreeable, shewalked out.

The agent studied a moment, and then said to himself:

"It's funny how anxious these women are to get on the stage."

Carrie found ample food for reflection in the fifty-dollarproposition.  "Maybe they'd take my money and not give meanything," she thought.  She had some jewelry--a diamond ring andpin and several other pieces.  She could get fifty dollars forthose if she went to a pawnbroker.

Hurstwood was home before her.  He had not thought she would beso long seeking.

"Well?" he said, not venturing to ask what news.

"I didn't find out anything to-day," said Carrie, taking off hergloves.  "They all want money to get you a place."

"How much?" asked Hurstwood.

"Fifty dollars."

"They don't want anything, do they?"

"Oh, they're like everybody else.  You can't tell whether they'dever get you anything after you did pay them."

"Well, I wouldn't put up fifty on that basis," said Hurstwood, asif he were deciding, money in hand.

"I don't know," said Carrie.  "I think I'll try some of themanagers."

Hurstwood heard this, dead to the horror of it.  He rocked alittle to and fro, and chewed at his finger.  It seemed all verynatural in such extreme states.  He would do better later on.

Chapter XXXVIII

IN ELF LAND DISPORTING--THE GRIM WORLD WITHOUT

When Carrie renewed her search, as she did the next day, going tothe Casino, she found that in the opera chorus, as in otherfields, employment is difficult to secure.  Girls who can standin a line and look pretty are as numerous as labourers who canswing a pick.  She found there was no discrimination between oneand the other of applicants, save as regards a conventionalstandard of prettiness and form.  Their own opinion or knowledgeof their ability went for nothing.

"Where shall I find Mr. Gray?" she asked of a sulky doorman atthe stage entrance of the Casino.

"You can't see him now; he's busy."

"Do you know when I can see him?"

"Got an appointment with him?"

"No."

"Well, you'll have to call at his office."

"Oh, dear!" exclaimed Carrie.  "Where is his office?"

He gave her the number.

She knew there was no need of calling there now.  He would not bein.  Nothing remained but to employ the intermediate hours insearch.

The dismal story of ventures in other places is quickly told.Mr. Daly saw no one save by appointment.  Carrie waited an hourin a dingy office, quite in spite of obstacles, to learn thisfact of the placid, indifferent Mr. Dorney.

"You will have to write and ask him to see you."

So she went away.

At the Empire Theatre she found a hive of peculiarly listless andindifferent individuals.  Everything ornately upholstered,everything carefully finished, everything remarkably reserved.

At the Lyceum she entered one of those secluded, under-stairwayclosets, berugged and bepaneled, which causes one to feel thegreatness of all positions of authority.  Here was reserve itselfdone into a box-office clerk, a doorman, and an assistant,glorying in their fine positions.

"Ah, be very humble now--very humble indeed.  Tell us what it isyou require.  Tell it quickly, nervously, and without a vestigeof self-respect.  If no trouble to us in any way, we may see whatwe can do."

This was the atmosphere of the Lyceum--the attitude, for thatmatter, of every managerial office in the city.  These littleproprietors of businesses are lords indeed on their own ground.

Carrie came away wearily, somewhat more abashed for her pains.

Hurstwood heard the details of the weary and unavailing searchthat evening.

"I didn't get to see any one," said Carrie.  "I just walked, andwalked, and waited around."

Hurstwood only looked at her.

"I suppose you have to have some friends before you can get in,"she added, disconsolately.

Hurstwood saw the difficulty of this thing, and yet it did notseem so terrible.  Carrie was tired and dispirited, but now shecould rest.  Viewing the world from his rocking-chair, itsbitterness did not seem to approach so rapidly.  To-morrow wasanother day.

To-morrow came, and the next, and the next.

Carrie saw the manager at the Casino once.

"Come around," he said, "the first of next week.  I may make somechanges then."

He was a large and corpulent individual, surfeited with goodclothes and good eating, who judged women as another wouldhorseflesh.  Carrie was pretty and graceful.  She might be put ineven if she did not have any experience.  One of the proprietorshad suggested that the chorus was a little weak on looks.

The first of next week was some days off yet.  The first of themonth was drawing near.  Carrie began to worry as she had neverworried before.

"Do you really look for anything when you go out?" she askedHurstwood one morning as a climax to some painful thoughts of herown.

"Of course I do," he said pettishly, troubling only a little overthe disgrace of the insinuation.

"I'd take anything," she said, "for the present.  It will soon bethe first of the month again."

She looked the picture of despair.

Hurstwood quit reading his paper and changed his clothes.

"He would look for something," he thought.  "He would go and seeif some brewery couldn't get him in somewhere.  Yes, he wouldtake a position as bartender, if he could get it."

It was the same sort of pilgrimage he had made before.  One ortwo slight rebuffs, and the bravado disappeared.

"No use," he thought.  "I might as well go on back home."

Now that his money was so low, he began to observe his clothesand feel that even his best ones were beginning to lookcommonplace.  This was a bitter thought.

Carrie came in after he did.

"I went to see some of the variety managers," she said,aimlessly.  "You have to have an act.  They don't want anybodythat hasn't."

"I saw some of the brewery people to-day," said Hurstwood.  "Oneman told me he'd try to make a place for me in two or threeweeks."

In the face of so much distress on Carrie's part, he had to makesome showing, and it was thus he did so.  It was lassitude'sapology to energy.

Monday Carrie went again to the Casino.

"Did I tell you to come around to day?" said the manager, lookingher over as she stood before him.

"You said the first of the week," said Carrie, greatly abashed.

"Ever had any experience?" he asked again, almost severely.

Carrie owned to ignorance.

He looked her over again as he stirred among some papers.  He wassecretly pleased with this pretty, disturbed-looking young woman."Come around to the theatre to-morrow morning."

Carrie's heart bounded to her throat.

"I will," she said with difficulty.  She could see he wanted her,and turned to go.

"Would he really put her to work? Oh, blessed fortune, could itbe?"

Already the hard rumble of the city through the open windowsbecame pleasant.

A sharp voice answered her mental interrogation, driving away allimmediate fears on that score.

"Be sure you're there promptly," the manager said roughly."You'll be dropped if you're not."

Carrie hastened away.  She did not quarrel now with Hurstwood'sidleness.  She had a place--she had a place! This sang in herears.

In her delight she was almost anxious to tell Hurstwood.  But, asshe walked homeward, and her survey of the facts of the casebecame larger, she began to think of the anomaly of her findingwork in several weeks and his lounging in idleness for a numberof months.

"Why don't he get something?" she openly said to herself.  "If Ican he surely ought to.  It wasn't very hard for me."

She forgot her youth and her beauty.  The handicap of age she didnot, in her enthusiasm, perceive.

Thus, ever, the voice of success.Still, she could not keep her secret.  She tried to be calm andindifferent, but it was a palpable sham.

"Well?" he said, seeing her relieved face.

"I have a place."

"You have?" he said, breathing a better breath.

"Yes."

"What sort of a place is it?" he asked, feeling in his veins asif now he might get something good also.

"In the chorus," she answered.

"Is it the Casino show you told me about?"

"Yes," she answered.  "I begin rehearsing to-morrow."

There was more explanation volunteered by Carrie, because she washappy.  At last Hurstwood said:

"Do you know how much you'll get?"

"No, I didn't want to ask," said Carrie.  "I guess they paytwelve or fourteen dollars a week."

"About that, I guess," said Hurstwood.

There was a good dinner in the flat that evening, owing to themere lifting of the terrible strain.  Hurstwood went out for ashave, and returned with a fair-sized sirloin steak.

"Now, to-morrow," he thought, "I'll look around myself," and withrenewed hope he lifted his eyes from the ground.

On the morrow Carrie reported promptly and was given a place inthe line.  She saw a large, empty, shadowy play-house, stillredolent of the perfumes and blazonry of the night, and notablefor its rich, oriental appearance.  The wonder of it awed anddelighted her.  Blessed be its wondrous reality.  How hard shewould try to be worthy of it.  It was above the common mass,above idleness, above want, above insignificance.  People came toit in finery and carriages to see.  It was ever a centre of lightand mirth.  And here she was of it.  Oh, if she could onlyremain, how happy would be her days!

"What is your name?" said the manager, who was conducting thedrill.

"Madenda," she replied, instantly mindful of the name Drouet hadselected in Chicago.  "Carrie Madenda."

"Well, now, Miss Madenda," he said, very affably, as Carriethought, "you go over there."

Then he called to a young woman who was already of the company:

"Miss Clark, you pair with Miss Madenda."

This young lady stepped forward, so that Carrie saw where to go,and the rehearsal began.

Carrie soon found that while this drilling had some slightresemblance to the rehearsals as conducted at Avery Hall, theattitude of the manager was much more pronounced.  She hadmarvelled at the insistence and superior airs of Mr. Millice, butthe individual conducting here had the same insistence, coupledwith almost brutal roughness.  As the drilling proceeded, heseemed to wax exceedingly wroth over trifles, and to increase hislung power in proportion.  It was very evident that he had agreat contempt for any assumption of dignity or innocence on thepart of these young women.

"Clark," he would call--meaning, of course, Miss Clark--"whydon't you catch step there?"

"By fours, right! Right, I said, right! For heaven's sake, get onto yourself! Right!" and in saying this he would lift the lastsounds into a vehement roar.

"Maitland! Maitland!" he called once.

A nervous, comely-dressed little girl stepped out.  Carrietrembled for her out of the fulness of her own sympathies andfear.

"Yes, sir," said Miss Maitland.

"Is there anything the matter with your ears?"

"No, sir."

"Do you know what 'column left' means?"

"Yes, sir."

"Well, what are you stumbling around the right for? Want to breakup the line?"

"I was just"

"Never mind what you were just.  Keep your ears open."

Carrie pitied, and trembled for her turn.

Yet another suffered the pain of personal rebuke.

"Hold on a minute," cried the manager, throwing up his hands, asif in despair.  His demeanour was fierce.

"Elvers," he shouted, "what have you got in your mouth?"

"Nothing," said Miss Elvers, while some smiled and stoodnervously by.

"Well, are you talking?"

"No, sir."

"Well, keep your mouth still then.  Now, all together again."

At last Carrie's turn came.  It was because of her extremeanxiety to do all that was required that brought on the trouble.

She heard some one called.

"Mason," said the voice.  "Miss Mason."

She looked around to see who it could be.  A girl behind shovedher a little, but she did not understand.

"You, you!" said the manager.  "Can't you hear?"

"Oh," said Carrie, collapsing, and blushing fiercely.

"Isn't your name Mason?" asked the manager.

"No, sir," said Carrie, "it's Madenda."

"Well, what's the matter with your feet? Can't you dance?"

"Yes, sir," said Carrie, who had long since learned this art.

"Why don't you do it then? Don't go shuffling along as if youwere dead.  I've got to have people with life in them."

Carrie's cheek burned with a crimson heat.  Her lips trembled alittle.

"Yes, sir," she said.

It was this constant urging, coupled with irascibility andenergy, for three long hours.  Carrie came away worn enough inbody, but too excited in mind to notice it.  She meant to go homeand practise her evolutions as prescribed.  She would not err inany way, if she could help it.

When she reached the flat Hurstwood was not there.  For a wonderhe was out looking for work, as she supposed.  She took only amouthful to eat and then practised on, sustained by visions offreedom from financial distress--"The sound of glory ringing inher ears."

When Hurstwood returned he was not so elated as when he wentaway, and now she was obliged to drop practice and get dinner.Here was an early irritation.  She would have her work and this.Was she going to act and keep house?

"I'll not do it," she said, "after I get started.  He can takehis meals out."

Each day thereafter brought its cares.  She found it was not sucha wonderful thing to be in the chorus, and she also learned thather salary would be twelve dollars a week.  After a few days shehad her first sight of those high and mighties--the leadingladies and gentlemen.  She saw that they were privileged anddeferred to.  She was nothing--absolutely nothing at all.

At home was Hurstwood, daily giving her cause for thought.  Heseemed to get nothing to do, and yet he made bold to inquire howshe was getting along.  The regularity with which he did thissmacked of some one who was waiting to live upon her labour.  Nowthat she had a visible means of support, this irritated her.  Heseemed to be depending upon her little twelve dollars.

"How are you getting along?" he would blandly inquire.

"Oh, all right," she would reply.

"Find it easy?"

"It will be all right when I get used to it."

His paper would then engross his thoughts.

"I got some lard," he would add, as an afterthought.  "I thoughtmaybe you might want to make some biscuit."

The calm suggestion of the man astonished her a little,especially in the light of recent developments.  Her dawningindependence gave her more courage to observe, and she felt as ifshe wanted to say things.  Still she could not talk to him as shehad to Drouet.  There was something in the man's manner of whichshe had always stood in awe.  He seemed to have some invisiblestrength in reserve.

One day, after her first week's rehearsal, what she expected cameopenly to the surface.

"We'll have to be rather saving," he said, laying down some meathe had purchased.  "You won't get any money for a week or soyet."

"No," said Carrie, who was stirring a pan at the stove.

"I've only got the rent and thirteen dollars more," he added.

"That's it," she said to herself.  "I'm to use my money now."

Instantly she remembered that she had hoped to buy a few thingsfor herself.  She needed clothes.  Her hat was not nice.

"What will twelve dollars do towards keeping up this flat?" shethought.  "I can't do it.  Why doesn't he get something to do?"

The important night of the first real performance came.  She didnot suggest to Hurstwood that he come and see.  He did not thinkof going.  It would only be money wasted.  She had such a smallpart.

The advertisements were already in the papers; the posters uponthe bill-boards.  The leading lady and many members were cited.Carrie was nothing.

As in Chicago, she was seized with stage fright as the very firstentrance of the ballet approached, but later she recovered.  Theapparent and painful insignificance of the part took fear awayfrom her.  She felt that she was so obscure it did not matter.Fortunately, she did not have to wear tights.  A group of twelvewere assigned pretty golden-hued skirts which came only to a lineabout an inch above the knee.  Carrie happened to be one of thetwelve.

In standing about the stage, marching, and occasionally liftingup her voice in the general chorus, she had a chance to observethe audience and to see the inauguration of a great hit.  Therewas plenty of applause, but she could not help noting how poorlysome of the women of alleged ability did.

"I could do better than that," Carrie ventured to herself, inseveral instances.  To do her justice, she was right.

After it was over she dressed quickly, and as the manager hadscolded some others and passed her, she imagined she must haveproved satisfactory.  She wanted to get out quickly, because sheknew but few, and the stars were gossiping.  Outside werecarriages and some correct youths in attractive clothing,waiting.  Carrie saw that she was scanned closely.  The flutterof an eyelash would have brought her a companion.  That she didnot give.

One experienced youth volunteered, anyhow.

"Not going home alone, are you?" he said.

Carrie merely hastened her steps and took the Sixth Avenue car.Her head was so full of the wonder of it that she had time fornothing else.

"Did you hear any more from the brewery?" she asked at the end ofthe week, hoping by the question to stir him on to action.

"No," he answered, "they're not quite ready yet.  I thinksomething will come of that, though."

She said nothing more then, objecting to giving up her own money,and yet feeling that such would have to be the case.  Hurstwoodfelt the crisis, and artfully decided to appeal to Carrie.  Hehad long since realised how good-natured she was, how much shewould stand.  There was some little shame in him at the thoughtof doing so, but he justified himself with the thought that hereally would get something.  Rent day gave him his opportunity.

"Well," he said, as he counted it out, "that's about the last ofmy money.  I'll have to get something pretty soon."

Carrie looked at him askance, half-suspicious of an appeal.

"If I could only hold out a little longer I think I could getsomething.  Drake is sure to open a hotel here in September."

"Is he?" said Carrie, thinking of the short month that stillremained until that time.

"Would you mind helping me out until then?" he said appealingly."I think I'll be all right after that time."

"No," said Carrie, feeling sadly handicapped by fate.

"We can get along if we economise.  I'll pay you back all right."

"Oh, I'll help you," said Carrie, feeling quite hardhearted atthus forcing him to humbly appeal, and yet her desire for thebenefit of her earnings wrung a faint protest from her.

"Why don't you take anything, George, temporarily?" she said."What difference does it make? Maybe, after a while, you'll getsomething better."

"I will take anything," he said, relieved, and wincing underreproof.  "I'd just as leave dig on the streets.  Nobody knows mehere."

"Oh, you needn't do that," said Carrie, hurt by the pity of it."But there must be other things."

"I'll get something!" he said, assuming determination.

Then he went back to his paper.

Chapter XXXIX

OF LIGHTS AND OF SHADOWS--THE PARTING OF WORLDS

What Hurstwood got as the result of this determination was moreself-assurance that each particular day was not the day.  At thesame time, Carrie passed through thirty days of mental distress.

Her need of clothes--to say nothing of her desire for ornaments--grew rapidly as the fact developed that for all her work she wasnot to have them.  The sympathy she felt for Hurstwood, at thetime he asked her to tide him over, vanished with these newerurgings of decency.  He was not always renewing his request, butthis love of good appearance was.  It insisted, and Carrie wishedto satisfy it, wished more and more that Hurstwood was not in theway.

Hurstwood reasoned, when he neared the last ten dollars, that hehad better keep a little pocket change and not become whollydependent for car-fare, shaves, and the like; so when this sumwas still in his hand he announced himself as penniless.

"I'm clear out," he said to Carrie one afternoon.  "I paid forsome coal this morning, and that took all but ten or fifteencents."

"I've got some money there in my purse."

Hurstwood went to get it, starting for a can of tomatoes.  Carriescarcely noticed that this was the beginning of the new order.He took out fifteen cents and bought the can with it.  Thereafterit was dribs and drabs of this sort, until one morning Carriesuddenly remembered that she would not be back until close todinner time.

"We're all out of flour," she said; "you'd better get some thisafternoon.  We haven't any meat, either.  How would it do if wehad liver and bacon?"

"Suits me," said Hurstwood.

"Better get a half or three-quarters of a pound of that."

"Half 'll be enough," volunteered Hurstwood.

She opened her purse and laid down a half dollar.  He pretendednot to notice it.

Hurstwood bought the flour--which all grocers sold in 3 1/2-poundpackages--for thirteen cents and paid fifteen cents for a half-pound of liver and bacon.  He left the packages, together withthe balance of twenty-two cents, upon the kitchen table, whereCarrie found it.  It did not escape her that the change wasaccurate.  There was something sad in realising that, after all,all that he wanted of her was something to eat.  She felt as ifhard thoughts were unjust.  Maybe he would get something yet.  Hehad no vices.

That very evening, however, on going into the theatre, one of thechorus girls passed her all newly arrayed in a pretty mottledtweed suit, which took Carrie's eye.  The young woman wore a finebunch of violets and seemed in high spirits.  She smiled atCarrie good-naturedly as she passed, showing pretty, even teeth,and Carrie smiled back.

"She can afford to dress well," thought Carrie, "and so could I,if I could only keep my money.  I haven't a decent tie of anykind to wear."

She put out her foot and looked at her shoe reflectively."I'll get a pair of shoes Saturday, anyhow; I don't care whathappens."

One of the sweetest and most sympathetic little chorus girls inthe company made friends with her because in Carrie she foundnothing to frighten her away.  She was a gay little Manon,unwitting of society's fierce conception of morality, but,nevertheless, good to her neighbour and charitable.  Littlelicense was allowed the chorus in the matter of conversation,but, nevertheless, some was indulged in.

"It's warm to-night, isn't it?" said this girl, arrayed in pinkfleshings and an imitation golden helmet.  She also carried ashining shield.

"Yes; it is," said Carrie, pleased that some one should talk toher.

"I'm almost roasting," said the girl.

Carrie looked into her pretty face, with its large blue eyes, andsaw little beads of moisture.

"There's more marching in this opera than ever I did before,"added the girl.

"Have you been in others?" asked Carrie, surprised at herexperience.

"Lots of them," said the girl; "haven't you?"

"This is my first experience."

"Oh, is it? I thought I saw you the time they ran 'The Queen'sMate' here."

"No," said Carrie, shaking her head; "not me."

This conversation was interrupted by the blare of the orchestraand the sputtering of the calcium lights in the wings as the linewas called to form for a new entrance.  No further opportunityfor conversation occurred, but the next evening, when they weregetting ready for the stage, this girl appeared anew at her side.

"They say this show is going on the road next month."

"Is it?" said Carrie.

"Yes; do you think you'll go?"

"I don't know; I guess so, if they'll take me."

"Oh, they'll take you.  I wouldn't go.  They won't give you anymore, and it will cost you everything you make to live.  I neverleave New York.  There are too many shows going on here."

"Can you always get in another show?"

"I always have.  There's one going on up at the Broadway thismonth.  I'm going to try and get in that if this one reallygoes."

Carrie heard this with aroused intelligence.  Evidently it wasn'tso very difficult to get on.  Maybe she also could get a place ifthis show went away."Do they all pay about the same?" she asked.

"Yes.  Sometimes you get a little more.  This show doesn't payvery much."

"I get twelve," said Carrie.

"Do you?" said the girl.  "They pay me fifteen, and you do morework than I do.  I wouldn't stand it if I were you.  They're justgiving you less because they think you don't know.  You ought tobe making fifteen."

"Well, I'm not," said Carrie.

"Well, you'll get more at the next place if you want it," went onthe girl, who admired Carrie very much.  "You do fine, and themanager knows it."

To say the truth, Carrie did unconsciously move about with an airpleasing and somewhat distinctive.  It was due wholly to hernatural manner and total lack of self-consciousness.

"Do you suppose I could get more up at the Broadway?"

"Of course you can," answered the girl.  "You come with me when Igo.  I'll do the talking."

Carrie heard this, flushing with thankfulness.  She liked thislittle gaslight soldier.  She seemed so experienced and self-reliant in her tinsel helmet and military accoutrements.

"My future must be assured if I can always get work this way,"thought Carrie.

Still, in the morning, when her household duties would infringeupon her and Hurstwood sat there, a perfect load to contemplate,her fate seemed dismal and unrelieved.  It did not take so verymuch to feed them under Hurstwood's close-measured buying, andthere would possibly be enough for rent, but it left nothingelse.  Carrie bought the shoes and some other things, whichcomplicated the rent problem very seriously.  Suddenly, a weekfrom the fatal day, Carrie realised that they were going to runshort.

"I don't believe," she exclaimed, looking into her purse atbreakfast, "that I'll have enough to pay the rent."

"How much have you?" inquired Hurstwood.

"Well, I've got twenty-two dollars, but there's everything to bepaid for this week yet, and if I use all I get Saturday to paythis, there won't be any left for next week.  Do you think yourhotel man will open his hotel this month?"

"I think so," returned Hurstwood.  "He said he would."

After a while, Hurstwood said:

"Don't worry about it.  Maybe the grocer will wait.  He can dothat.  We've traded there long enough to make him trust us for aweek or two."

"Do you think he will?" she asked.

"I think so."On this account, Hurstwood, this very day, looked grocer Oesloggeclearly in the eye as he ordered a pound of coffee, and said:

"Do you mind carrying my account until the end of every week?"

"No, no, Mr. Wheeler," said Mr. Oeslogge.  "Dat iss all right."

Hurstwood, still tactful in distress, added nothing to this.  Itseemed an easy thing.  He looked out of the door, and thengathered up his coffee when ready and came away.  The game of adesperate man had begun.

Rent was paid, and now came the grocer.  Hurstwood managed bypaying out of his own ten and collecting from Carrie at the endof the week.  Then he delayed a day next time settling with thegrocer, and so soon had his ten back, with Oeslogge getting hispay on this Thursday or Friday for last Saturday's bill.

This entanglement made Carrie anxious for a change of some sort.Hurstwood did not seem to realise that she had a right toanything.  He schemed to make what she earned cover all expenses,but seemed not to trouble over adding anything himself.

"He talks about worrying," thought Carrie.  "If he worried enoughhe couldn't sit there and wait for me.  He'd get something to do.No man could go seven months without finding something if hetried."

The sight of him always around in his untidy clothes and gloomyappearance drove Carrie to seek relief in other places.  Twice aweek there were matinees, and then Hurstwood ate a cold snack,which he prepared himself.  Two other days there were rehearsalsbeginning at ten in the morning and lasting usually until one.Now, to this Carrie added a few visits to one or two chorusgirls, including the blue-eyed soldier of the golden helmet.  Shedid it because it was pleasant and a relief from dulness of thehome over which her husband brooded.

The blue-eyed soldier's name was Osborne--Lola Osborne.  Her roomwas in Nineteenth Street near Fourth Avenue, a block now given upwholly to office buildings.  Here she had a comfortable backroom, looking over a collection of back yards in which grew anumber of shade trees pleasant to see.

"Isn't your home in New York?" she asked of Lola one day.

"Yes; but I can't get along with my people.  They always want meto do what they want.  Do you live here?"

"Yes," said Carrie.

"With your family?"

Carrie was ashamed to say that she was married.  She had talkedso much about getting more salary and confessed to so muchanxiety about her future, that now, when the direct question offact was waiting, she could not tell this girl.

"With some relatives," she answered.

Miss Osborne took it for granted that, like herself, Carrie'stime was her own.  She invariably asked her to stay, proposinglittle outings and other things of that sort until Carrie beganneglecting her dinner hours.  Hurstwood noticed it, but felt inno position to quarrel with her.  Several times she came so lateas scarcely to have an hour in which to patch up a meal and startfor the theatre.

"Do you rehearse in the afternoons?" Hurstwood once asked,concealing almost completely the cynical protest and regret whichprompted it.

"No; I was looking around for another place," said Carrie.

As a matter of fact she was, but only in such a way as furnishedthe least straw of an excuse.  Miss Osborne and she had gone tothe office of the manager who was to produce the new opera at theBroadway and returned straight to the former's room, where theyhad been since three o'clock.

Carrie felt this question to be an infringement on her liberty.She did not take into account how much liberty she was securing.Only the latest step, the newest freedom, must not be questioned.

Hurstwood saw it all clearly enough.  He was shrewd after hiskind, and yet there was enough decency in the man to stop himfrom making any effectual protest.  In his almost inexplicableapathy he was content to droop supinely while Carrie drifted outof his life, just as he was willing supinely to see opportunitypass beyond his control.  He could not help clinging andprotesting in a mild, irritating, and ineffectual way, however--away that simply widened the breach by slow degrees.

A further enlargement of this chasm between them came when themanager, looking between the wings upon the brightly lightedstage where the chorus was going through some of its glitteringevolutions, said to the master of the ballet:

"Who is that fourth girl there on the right--the one coming roundat the end now?"

"Oh," said the ballet-master, "that's Miss Madenda."

"She's good looking.  Why don't you let her head that line?"

"I will," said the man.

"Just do that.  She'll look better there than the woman you'vegot."

"All right.  I will do that," said the master.

The next evening Carrie was called out, much as if for an error.

"You lead your company to night," said the master.

"Yes, sir," said Carrie.

"Put snap into it," he added.  "We must have snap."

"Yes, sir," replied Carrie.

Astonished at this change, she thought that the heretofore leadermust be ill; but when she saw her in the line, with a distinctexpression of something unfavourable in her eye, she began tothink that perhaps it was merit.

She had a chic way of tossing her head to one side, and holdingher arms as if for action--not listlessly.  In front of the linethis showed up even more effectually.

"That girl knows how to carry herself," said the manager, anotherevening.  He began to think that he should like to talk with her.If he hadn't made it a rule to have nothing to do with themembers of the chorus, he would have approached her mostunbendingly.

"Put that girl at the head of the white column," he suggested tothe man in charge of the ballet.

This white column consisted of some twenty girls, all in snow-white flannel trimmed with silver and blue.  Its leader was moststunningly arrayed in the same colours, elaborated, however, withepaulets and a belt of silver, with a short sword dangling at oneside.  Carrie was fitted for this costume, and a few days laterappeared, proud of her new laurels.  She was especially gratifiedto find that her salary was now eighteen instead of twelve.

Hurstwood heard nothing about this.

"I'll not give him the rest of my money," said Carrie.  "I doenough.  I am going to get me something to wear."

As a matter of fact, during this second month she had been buyingfor herself as recklessly as she dared, regardless of theconsequences.  There were impending more complications rent day,and more extension of the credit system in the neighbourhood.Now, however, she proposed to do better by herself.

Her first move was to buy a shirt waist, and in studying theseshe found how little her money would buy--how much, if she couldonly use all.  She forgot that if she were alone she would haveto pay for a room and board, and imagined that every cent of hereighteen could be spent for clothes and things that she liked.

At last she picked upon something, which not only used up all hersurplus above twelve, but invaded that sum.  She knew she wasgoing too far, but her feminine love of finery prevailed.  Thenext day Hurstwood said:

"We owe the grocer five dollars and forty cents this week."

"Do we?" said Carrie, frowning a little.

She looked in her purse to leave it.

"I've only got eight dollars and twenty cents altogether."

"We owe the milkman sixty cents," added Hurstwood.

"Yes, and there's the coal man," said Carrie.

Hurstwood said nothing.  He had seen the new things she wasbuying; the way she was neglecting household duties; thereadiness with which she was slipping out afternoons and staying.He felt that something was going to happen.  All at once shespoke:

"I don't know," she said; "I can't do it all.  I don't earnenough."

This was a direct challenge.  Hurstwood had to take it up.  Hetried to be calm.

"I don't want you to do it all," he said.  "I only want a littlehelp until I can get something to do."

"Oh, yes," answered Carrie.  "That's always the way.  It takesmore than I can earn to pay for things.  I don't see what I'mgoing to do.

"Well, I've tried to get something," he exclaimed.  What do youwant me to do?"

"You couldn't have tried so very hard," said Carrie.  "I gotsomething."

"Well, I did," he said, angered almost to harsh words.  "Youneedn't throw up your success to me.  All I asked was a littlehelp until I could get something.  I'm not down yet.  I'll comeup all right."

He tried to speak steadily, but his voice trembled a little.

Carrie's anger melted on the instant.  She felt ashamed.

"Well," she said, "here's the money," and emptied it out on thetable.  "I haven't got quite enough to pay it all.  If they canwait until Saturday, though, I'll have some more."

"You keep it," said Hurstwood sadly.  "I only want enough to paythe grocer."

She put it back, and proceeded to get dinner early and in goodtime.  Her little bravado made her feel as if she ought to makeamends.

In a little while their old thoughts returned to both.

"She's making more than she says," thought Hurstwood.  "She saysshe's making twelve, but that wouldn't buy all those things.  Idon't care.  Let her keep her money.  I'll get something againone of these days.  Then she can go to the deuce."

He only said this in his anger, but it prefigured a possiblecourse of action and attitude well enough.

"I don't care," thought Carrie.  "He ought to be told to get outand do something.  It isn't right that I should support him."

In these days Carrie was introduced to several youths, friends ofMiss Osborne, who were of the kind most aptly described as gayand festive.  They called once to get Miss Osborne for anafternoon drive.  Carrie was with her at the time.

"Come and go along," said Lola.

"No, I can't," said Carrie.

"Oh, yes, come and go.  What have you got to do?"

"I have to be home by five," said Carrie.

"What for?"

"Oh, dinner."

"They'll take us to dinner," said Lola.

"Oh, no," said Carrie.  "I won't go.  I can't."

"Oh, do come.  They're awful nice boys.  We'll get you back intime.  We're only going for a drive in Central Park."Carrie thought a while, and at last yielded.

"Now, I must be back by half-past four," she said.

The information went in one ear of Lola and out the other.

After Drouet and Hurstwood, there was the least touch of cynicismin her attitude toward young men--especially of the gay andfrivolous sort.  She felt a little older than they.  Some oftheir pretty compliments seemed silly.  Still, she was young inheart and body and youth appealed to her.

"Oh, we'll be right back, Miss Madenda," said one of the chaps,bowing.  "You wouldn't think we'd keep you over time, now, wouldyou?"

"Well, I don't know," said Carrie, smiling.

They were off for a drive--she, looking about and noticing fineclothing, the young men voicing those silly pleasantries and weakquips which pass for humour in coy circles.  Carrie saw the greatpark parade of carriages, beginning at the Fifty-ninth Streetentrance and winding past the Museum of Art to the exit at OneHundred and Tenth Street and Seventh Avenue.  Her eye was oncemore taken by the show of wealth--the elaborate costumes, elegantharnesses, spirited horses, and, above all, the beauty.  Oncemore the plague of poverty galled her, but now she forgot in ameasure her own troubles so far as to forget Hurstwood.  Hewaited until four, five, and even six.  It was getting dark whenhe got up out of his chair.

"I guess she isn't coming home," he said, grimly.

"That's the way," he thought.  "She's getting a start now.  I'mout of it."

Carrie had really discovered her neglect, but only at a quarterafter five, and the open carriage was now far up Seventh Avenue,near the Harlem River.

"What time is it?" she inquired.  "I must be getting back."

"A quarter after five," said her companion, consulting anelegant, open-faced watch.

"Oh, dear me!" exclaimed Carrie.  Then she settled back with asigh.  "There's no use crying over spilt milk," she said.  "It'stoo late."

"Of course it is," said the youth, who saw visions of a finedinner now, and such invigorating talk as would result in areunion after the show.  He was greatly taken with Carrie."We'll drive down to Delmonico's now and have something there,won't we, Orrin?"

"To be sure," replied Orrin, gaily.

Carrie thought of Hurstwood.  Never before had she neglecteddinner without an excuse.

They drove back, and at 6.15 sat down to dine.  It was the Sherryincident over again, the remembrance of which came painfully backto Carrie.  She remembered Mrs. Vance, who had never called againafter Hurstwood's reception, and Ames.

At this figure her mind halted.  It was a strong, clean vision.He liked better books than she read, better people than sheassociated with.  His ideals burned in her heart.

"It's fine to be a good actress," came distinctly back.

What sort of an actress was she?

"What are you thinking about, Miss Madenda?" inquired her merrycompanion.  "Come, now, let's see if I can guess."

"Oh, no," said Carrie.  "Don't try."

She shook it off and ate.  She forgot, in part, and was merry.When it came to the after-theatre proposition, however, she shookher head.

"No," she said, "I can't.  I have a previous engagement."

"Oh, now, Miss Madenda," pleaded the youth.

"No," said Carrie, "I can't.  You've been so kind, but you'llhave to excuse me."

The youth looked exceedingly crestfallen.

"Cheer up, old man," whispered his companion.  "We'll go around,anyhow.  She may change her mind."

Chapter XL

A PUBLIC DISSENSION--A FINAL APPEAL

There was no after-theatre lark, however, so far as Carrie wasconcerned.  She made her way homeward, thinking about herabsence.  Hurstwood was asleep, but roused up to look as shepassed through to her own bed.

"Is that you?" he said.

"Yes," she answered.

The next morning at breakfast she felt like apologising.

"I couldn't get home last evening," she said.

"Ah, Carrie," he answered, "what's the use saying that? I don'tcare.  You needn't tell me that, though."

"I couldn't," said Carrie, her colour rising.  Then, seeing thathe looked as if he said "I know," she exclaimed: "Oh, all right.I don't care."

From now on, her indifference to the flat was even greater.There seemed no common ground on which they could talk to oneanother.  She let herself be asked for expenses.  It became sowith him that he hated to do it.  He preferred standing off thebutcher and baker.  He ran up a grocery bill of sixteen dollarswith Oeslogge, laying in a supply of staple articles, so thatthey would not have to buy any of those things for some time tocome.  Then he changed his grocery.  It was the same with thebutcher and several others.  Carrie never heard anything of thisdirectly from him.He asked for such as he could expect, drifting farther andfarther into a situation which could have but one ending.

In this fashion, September went by.

"Isn't Mr. Drake going to open his hotel?" Carrie asked severaltimes.

"Yes.  He won't do it before October, though, now."

Carrie became disgusted.  "Such a man," she said to herselffrequently.  More and more she visited.  She put most of herspare money in clothes, which, after all, was not an astonishingamount.  At last the opera she was with announced its departurewithin four weeks.  "Last two weeks of the Great Comic Operasuccess ----The--------," etc., was upon all billboards and inthe newspapers, before she acted.

"I'm not going out on the road," said Miss Osborne.

Carrie went with her to apply to another manager.

"Ever had any experience?" was one of his questions.

"I'm with the company at the Casino now."

"Oh, you are?" he said.

The end of this was another engagement at twenty per week.

Carrie was delighted.  She began to feel that she had a place inthe world.  People recognised ability.

So changed was her state that the home atmosphere becameintolerable.  It was all poverty and trouble there, or seemed tobe, because it was a load to bear.  It became a place to keepaway from.  Still she slept there, and did a fair amount of work,keeping it in order.  It was a sitting place for Hurstwood.  Hesat and rocked, rocked and read, enveloped in the gloom of hisown fate.  October went by, and November.  It was the dead ofwinter almost before he knew it, and there he sat.

Carrie was doing better, that he knew.  Her clothes were improvednow, even fine.  He saw her coming and going, sometimes picturingto himself her rise.  Little eating had thinned him somewhat.  Hehad no appetite.  His clothes, too, were a poor man's clothes.Talk about getting something had become even too threadbare andridiculous for him.  So he folded his hands and waited--for what,he could not anticipate.

At last, however, troubles became too thick.  The hounding ofcreditors, the indifference of Carrie, the silence of the flat,and presence of winter, all joined to produce a climax.  It waseffected by the arrival of Oeslogge, personally, when Carrie wasthere.

"I call about my bill," said Mr. Oeslogge.

Carrie was only faintly surprised.

"How much is it?" she asked.

"Sixteen dollars," he replied.

"Oh, that much?" said Carrie.  "Is this right?" she asked,turning to Hurstwood.

"Yes," he said.

"Well, I never heard anything about it."

She looked as if she thought he had been contracting someneedless expense.

"Well, we had it all right," he answered.  Then he went to thedoor.  "I can't pay you anything on that to-day," he said,mildly.

"Well, when can you?" said the grocer.

"Not before Saturday, anyhow," said Hurstwood.

"Huh!" returned the grocer.  "This is fine.  I must have that.  Ineed the money."

Carrie was standing farther back in the room, hearing it all.She was greatly distressed.  It was so bad and commonplace.Hurstwood was annoyed also.

"Well," he said, "there's no use talking about it now.  If you'llcome in Saturday, I'll pay you something on it."

The grocery man went away.

"How are we going to pay it?" asked Carrie, astonished by thebill.  "I can't do it."

"Well, you don't have to," he said.  "He can't get what he can'tget.  He'll have to wait."

"I don't see how we ran up such a bill as that," said Carrie.

"Well, we ate it," said Hurstwood.

"It's funny," she replied, still doubting.

"What's the use of your standing there and talking like that,now?" he asked.  "Do you think I've had it alone? You talk as ifI'd taken something."

"Well, it's too much, anyhow," said Carrie.  "I oughtn't to bemade to pay for it.  I've got more than I can pay for now."

"All right," replied Hurstwood, sitting down in silence.  He wassick of the grind of this thing.

Carrie went out and there he sat, determining to do something.

There had been appearing in the papers about this time rumoursand notices of an approaching strike on the trolley lines inBrooklyn.  There was general dissatisfaction as to the hours oflabour required and the wages paid.  As usual--and for someinexplicable reason--the men chose the winter for the forcing ofthe hand of their employers and the settlement of theirdifficulties.

Hurstwood had been reading of this thing, and wonderingconcerning the huge tie-up which would follow.  A day or twobefore this trouble with Carrie, it came.  On a cold afternoon,when everything was grey and it threatened to snow, the papersannounced that the men had been called out on all the lines.Being so utterly idle, and his mind filled with the numerouspredictions which had been made concerning the scarcity of labourthis winter and the panicky state of the financial market,Hurstwood read this with interest.  He noted the claims of thestriking motormen and conductors, who said that they had beenwont to receive two dollars a day in times past, but that for ayear or more "trippers" had been introduced, which cut down theirchance of livelihood one-half, and increased their hours ofservitude from ten to twelve, and even fourteen.  These"trippers" were men put on during the busy and rush hours, totake a car out for one trip.  The compensation paid for such atrip was only twenty-five cents.  When the rush or busy hourswere over, they were laid off.  Worst of all, no man might knowwhen he was going to get a car.  He must come to the barns in themorning and wait around in fair and foul weather until such timeas he was needed.  Two trips were an average reward for so muchwaiting--a little over three hours' work for fifty cents.  Thework of waiting was not counted.

The men complained that this system was extending, and that thetime was not far off when but a few out of 7,000 employees wouldhave regular two-dollar-a-day work at all.  They demanded thatthe system be abolished, and that ten hours be considered a day'swork, barring unavoidable delays, with $2.25 pay.  They demandedimmediate acceptance of these terms, which the various trolleycompanies refused.

Hurstwood at first sympathised with the demands of these men--indeed, it is a question whether he did not always sympathisewith them to the end, belie him as his actions might.  Readingnearly all the news, he was attracted first by the scare-headswith which the trouble was noted in the "World." He read itfully--the names of the seven companies involved, the number ofmen.

"They're foolish to strike in this sort of weather," he thoughtto himself.  "Let 'em win if they can, though."

The next day there was even a larger notice of it.  "BrooklynitesWalk," said the "World." "Knights of Labour Tie up the TrolleyLines Across the Bridge." "About Seven Thousand Men Out."

Hurstwood read this, formulating to himself his own idea of whatwould be the outcome.  He was a great believer in the strength ofcorporations.

"They can't win," he said, concerning the men.  "They haven't anymoney.  The police will protect the companies.  They've got to.The public has to have its cars."

He didn't sympathise with the corporations, but strength was withthem.  So was property and public utility.

"Those fellows can't win," he thought.

Among other things, he noticed a circular issued by one of thecompanies, which read:

ATLANTIC AVENUE RAILROAD

SPECIAL NOTICE

The motormen and conductors and other employees of this companyhaving abruptly left its service, an opportunity is now given toall loyal men who have struck against their will to bereinstated, providing they will make their applications by twelveo'clock noon on Wednesday, January 16th.  Such men will be givenemployment (with guaranteed protection) in the order in whichsuch applications are received, and runs and positions assignedthem accordingly.  Otherwise, they will be considered discharged,and every vacancy will be filled by a new man as soon as hisservices can be secured.(Signed)Benjamin Norton,President

He also noted among the want ads.  one which read:

WANTED.--50 skilled motormen, accustomed to Westinghouse system,to run U.S. mail cars only, in the City of Brooklyn; protectionguaranteed.

He noted particularly in each the "protection guaranteed." Itsignified to him the unassailable power of the companies.

"They've got the militia on their side," he thought.  "Thereisn't anything those men can do."

While this was still in his mind, the incident with Oeslogge andCarrie occurred.  There had been a good deal to irritate him, butthis seemed much the worst.  Never before had she accused him ofstealing--or very near that.  She doubted the naturalness of solarge a bill.  And he had worked so hard to make expenses seemlight.  He had been "doing" butcher and baker in order not tocall on her.  He had eaten very little--almost nothing.

"Damn it all!" he said.  "I can get something.  I'm not downyet."

He thought that he really must do something now.  It was toocheap to sit around after such an insinuation as this.  Why,after a little, he would be standing anything.

He got up and looked out the window into the chilly street.  Itcame gradually into his mind, as he stood there, to go toBrooklyn.

"Why not?" his mind said.  "Any one can get work over there.You'll get two a day."

"How about accidents?" said a voice.  "You might get hurt."

"Oh, there won't be much of that," he answered.  "They've calledout the police.  Any one who wants to run a car will be protectedall right."

"You don't know how to run a car," rejoined the voice.

"I won't apply as a motorman," he answered.  "I can ring up faresall right."

"They'll want motormen, mostly."

"They'll take anybody; that I know."

For several hours he argued pro and con with this mentalcounsellor, feeling no need to act at once in a matter so sure ofprofit.

In the morning he put on his best clothes, which were poorenough, and began stirring about, putting some bread and meatinto a page of a newspaper.  Carrie watched him, interested inthis new move.

"Where are you going?" she asked.

"Over to Brooklyn," he answered.  Then, seeing her stillinquisitive, he added: "I think I can get on over there."

"On the trolley lines?" said Carrie, astonished.

"Yes," he rejoined.

"Aren't you afraid?" she asked.

"What of?" he answered.  "The police are protecting them."

"The paper said four men were hurt yesterday."

"Yes," he returned; "but you can't go by what the papers say.They'll run the cars all right."

He looked rather determined now, in a desolate sort of way, andCarrie felt very sorry.  Something of the old Hurstwood was here--the least shadow of what was once shrewd and pleasant strength.Outside, it was cloudy and blowing a few flakes of snow.

"What a day to go over there," thought Carrie.

Now he left before she did, which was a remarkable thing, andtramped eastward to Fourteenth Street and Sixth Avenue, where hetook the car.  He had read that scores of applicants wereapplying at the office of the Brooklyn City Railroad building andwere being received.  He made his way there by horse-car andferry--a dark, silent man--to the offices in question.  It was along way, for no cars were running, and the day was cold; but hetrudged along grimly.  Once in Brooklyn, he could clearly see andfeel that a strike was on.  People showed it in their manner.Along the routes of certain tracks not a car was running.  Aboutcertain corners and nearby saloons small groups of men werelounging.  Several spring wagons passed him, equipped with plainwooden chairs, and labelled "Flatbush" or "Prospect Park.  Fare,Ten Cents." He noticed cold and even gloomy faces.  Labour washaving its little war.

When he came near the office in question, he saw a few menstanding about, and some policemen.  On the far corners wereother men--whom he took to be strikers--watching.  All the houseswere small and wooden, the streets poorly paved.  After New York,Brooklyn looked actually poor and hard-up.

He made his way into the heart of the small group, eyed bypolicemen and the men already there.  One of the officersaddressed him.

"What are you looking for?"

"I want to see if I can get a place."

"The offices are up those steps," said the bluecoat.  His facewas a very neutral thing to contemplate.  In his heart of hearts,he sympathised with the strikers and hated this "scab." In hisheart of hearts, also, he felt the dignity and use of the policeforce, which commanded order.  Of its true social significance,he never once dreamed.  His was not the mind for that.  The twofeelings blended in him--neutralised one another and him.  Hewould have fought for this man as determinedly as for himself,and yet only so far as commanded.  Strip him of his uniform, andhe would have soon picked his side.

Hurstwood ascended a dusty flight of steps and entered a small,dust-coloured office, in which were a railing, a long desk, andseveral clerks.

"Well, sir?" said a middle-aged man, looking up at him from thelong desk.

"Do you want to hire any men?" inquired Hurstwood.

"What are you--a motorman?"

"No; I'm not anything," said Hurstwood.

He was not at all abashed by his position.  He knew these peopleneeded men.  If one didn't take him, another would.  This mancould take him or leave him, just as he chose.

"Well, we prefer experienced men, of course," said the man.  Hepaused, while Hurstwood smiled indifferently.  Then he added:"Still, I guess you can learn.  What is your name?"

"Wheeler," said Hurstwood.

The man wrote an order on a small card.  "Take that to ourbarns," he said, "and give it to the foreman.  He'll show youwhat to do."

Hurstwood went down and out.  He walked straight away in thedirection indicated, while the policemen looked after.

"There's another wants to try it," said Officer Kiely to OfficerMacey.

"I have my mind he'll get his fill," returned the latter,quietly.  They had been in strikes before.

Chapter XLI

THE STRIKE

The barn at which Hurstwood applied was exceedingly short-handed,and was being operated practically by three men as directors.There were a lot of green hands around--queer, hungry-lookingmen, who looked as if want had driven them to desperate means.They tried to be lively and willing, but there was an air ofhang-dog diffidence about the place.

Hurstwood went back through the barns and out into a large,enclosed lot, where were a series of tracks and loops.  A half-dozen cars were there, manned by instructors, each with a pupilat the lever.  More pupils were waiting at one of the rear doorsof the barn.

In silence Hurstwood viewed this scene, and waited.  Hiscompanions took his eye for a while, though they did not interesthim much more than the cars.  They were an uncomfortable-lookinggang, however.  One or two were very thin and lean.  Several werequite stout.  Several others were rawboned and sallow, as if theyhad been beaten upon by all sorts of rough weather.

"Did you see by the paper they are going to call out themilitia?" Hurstwood heard one of them remark.

"Oh, they'll do that," returned the other.  "They always do."

"Think we're liable to have much trouble?" said another, whomHurstwood did not see.

"Not very."

"That Scotchman that went out on the last car," put in a voice,"told me that they hit him in the ear with a cinder."

A small, nervous laugh accompanied this.

"One of those fellows on the Fifth Avenue line must have had ahell of a time, according to the papers," drawled another.  "Theybroke his car windows and pulled him off into the street 'forethe police could stop 'em."

"Yes; but there are more police around to-day," was added byanother.

Hurstwood hearkened without much mental comment.  These talkersseemed scared to him.  Their gabbling was feverish--things saidto quiet their own minds.  He looked out into the yard andwaited.

Two of the men got around quite near him, but behind his back.They were rather social, and he listened to what they said.

"Are you a railroad man?" said one.

"Me? No.  I've always worked in a paper factory."

"I had a job in Newark until last October," returned the other,with reciprocal feeling.

There were some words which passed too low to hear.  Then theconversation became strong again.

"I don't blame these fellers for striking," said one.  "They'vegot the right of it, all right, but I had to get something todo."

"Same here," said the other.  "If I had any job in Newark Iwouldn't be over here takin' chances like these."

"It's hell these days, ain't it?" said the man.  "A poor manain't nowhere.  You could starve, by God, right in the streets,and there ain't most no one would help you."

"Right you are," said the other.  "The job I had I lost 'causethey shut down.  They run all summer and lay up a big stock, andthen shut down."

Hurstwood paid some little attention to this.  Somehow, he felt alittle superior to these two--a little better off.  To him thesewere ignorant and commonplace, poor sheep in a driver's hand.

"Poor devils," he thought, speaking out of the thoughts andfeelings of a bygone period of success."Next," said one of the instructors.

"You're next," said a neighbour, touching him.

He went out and climbed on the platform.  The instructor took itfor granted that no preliminaries were needed.

"You see this handle," he said, reaching up to an electric cut-off, which was fastened to the roof.  "This throws the currentoff or on.  If you want to reverse the car you turn it over here.If you want to send it forward, you put it over here.  If youwant to cut off the power, you keep it in the middle."

Hurstwood smiled at the simple information.

"Now, this handle here regulates your speed.  To here," he said,pointing with his finger, "gives you about four miles an hour.This is eight.  When it's full on, you make about fourteen milesan hour."

Hurstwood watched him calmly.  He had seen motormen work before.He knew just about how they did it, and was sure he could do aswell, with a very little practice.

The instructor explained a few more details, and then said:

"Now, we'll back her up."

Hurstwood stood placidly by, while the car rolled back into theyard.

"One thing you want to be careful about, and that is to starteasy.  Give one degree time to act before you start another.  Theone fault of most men is that they always want to throw her wideopen.  That's bad.  It's dangerous, too.  Wears out the motor.You don't want to do that."

"I see," said Hurstwood.

He waited and waited, while the man talked on.

"Now you take it," he said, finally.

The ex-manager laid hand to the lever and pushed it gently, as hethought.  It worked much easier than he imagined, however, withthe result that the car jerked quickly forward, throwing him backagainst the door.  He straightened up sheepishly, while theinstructor stopped the car with the brake.

"You want to be careful about that," was all he said.

Hurstwood found, however, that handling a brake and regulatingspeed were not so instantly mastered as he had imagined.  Once ortwice he would have ploughed through the rear fence if it had notbeen for the hand and word of his companion.  The latter wasrather patient with him, but he never smiled.

"You've got to get the knack of working both arms at once," hesaid.  "It takes a little practice."

One o'clock came while he was still on the car practising, and hebegan to feel hungry.  The day set in snowing, and he was cold.He grew weary of running to and fro on the short track.

They ran the car to the end and both got off.  Hurstwood wentinto the barn and sought a car step, pulling out his paper-wrapped lunch from his pocket.  There was no water and the breadwas dry, but he enjoyed it.  There was no ceremony about dining.He swallowed and looked about, contemplating the dull, homelylabour of the thing.  It was disagreeable--miserablydisagreeable--in all its phases.  Not because it was bitter, butbecause it was hard.  It would be hard to any one, he thought.

After eating, he stood about as before, waiting until his turncame.

The intention was to give him an afternoon of practice, but thegreater part of the time was spent in waiting about.

At last evening came, and with it hunger and a debate withhimself as to how he should spend the night.  It was half-pastfive.  He must soon eat.  If he tried to go home, it would takehim two hours and a half of cold walking and riding.  Besides hehad orders to report at seven the next morning, and going homewould necessitate his rising at an unholy and disagreeable hour.He had only something like a dollar and fifteen cents of Carrie'smoney, with which he had intended to pay the two weeks' coal billbefore the present idea struck him.

"They must have some place around here," he thought.  "Where doesthat fellow from Newark stay?"

Finally he decided to ask.  There was a young fellow standingnear one of the doors in the cold, waiting a last turn.  He was amere boy in years--twenty-one about--but with a body lank andlong, because of privation.  A little good living would have madethis youth plump and swaggering.

"How do they arrange this, if a man hasn't any money?" inquiredHurstwood, discreetly.

The fellow turned a keen, watchful face on the inquirer.

"You mean eat?" he replied.

"Yes, and sleep.  I can't go back to New York to-night."

"The foreman 'll fix that if you ask him, I guess.  He did me."

"That so?"

"Yes.  I just told him I didn't have anything.  Gee, I couldn'tgo home.  I live way over in Hoboken."

Hurstwood only cleared his throat by way of acknowledgment.

"They've got a place upstairs here, I understand.  I don't knowwhat sort of a thing it is.  Purty tough, I guess.  He gave me ameal ticket this noon.  I know that wasn't much."

Hurstwood smiled grimly, and the boy laughed.

"It ain't no fun, is it?" he inquired, wishing vainly for acheery reply.

"Not much," answered Hurstwood.

"I'd tackle him now," volunteered the youth.  "He may go 'way."

Hurstwood did so.

"Isn't there some place I can stay around here to-night?" heinquired.  "If I have to go back to New York, I'm afraid I won't"

"There're some cots upstairs," interrupted the man, "if you wantone of them."

"That'll do," he assented.

He meant to ask for a meal ticket, but the seemingly propermoment never came, and he decided to pay himself that night.

"I'll ask him in the morning."

He ate in a cheap restaurant in the vicinity, and, being cold andlonely, went straight off to seek the loft in question.  Thecompany was not attempting to run cars after nightfall.  It wasso advised by the police.

The room seemed to have been a lounging place for night workers.There were some nine cots in the place, two or three woodenchairs, a soap box, and a small, round-bellied stove, in which afire was blazing.  Early as he was, another man was there beforehim.  The latter was sitting beside the stove warming his hands.

Hurstwood approached and held out his own toward the fire.  Hewas sick of the bareness and privation of all things connectedwith his venture, but was steeling himself to hold out.  Hefancied he could for a while.

"Cold, isn't it?" said the early guest.

"Rather."

A long silence.

"Not much of a place to sleep in, is it?" said the man.

"Better than nothing," replied Hurstwood.

Another silence.

"I believe I'll turn in," said the man.

Rising, he went to one of the cots and stretched himself,removing only his shoes, and pulling the one blanket and dirtyold comforter over him in a sort of bundle.  The sight disgustedHurstwood, but he did not dwell on it, choosing to gaze into thestove and think of something else.  Presently he decided toretire, and picked a cot, also removing his shoes.

While he was doing so, the youth who had advised him to come hereentered, and, seeing Hurstwood, tried to be genial.

"Better'n nothin'," he observed, looking around.

Hurstwood did not take this to himself.  He thought it to be anexpression of individual satisfaction, and so did not answer.The youth imagined he was out of sorts, and set to whistlingsoftly.  Seeing another man asleep, he quit that and lapsed intosilence.

Hurstwood made the best of a bad lot by keeping on his clothesand pushing away the dirty covering from his head, but at last hedozed in sheer weariness.  The covering became more and morecomfortable, its character was forgotten, and he pulled it abouthis neck and slept.In the morning he was aroused out of a pleasant dream by severalmen stirring about in the cold, cheerless room.  He had been backin Chicago in fancy, in his own comfortable home.  Jessica hadbeen arranging to go somewhere, and he had been talking with herabout it.  This was so clear in his mind, that he was startlednow by the contrast of this room.  He raised his head, and thecold, bitter reality jarred him into wakefulness.

"Guess I'd better get up," he said.

There was no water on this floor.  He put on his shoes in thecold and stood up, shaking himself in his stiffness.  His clothesfelt disagreeable, his hair bad.

"Hell!" he muttered, as he put on his hat.

Downstairs things were stirring again.

He found a hydrant, with a trough which had once been used forhorses, but there was no towel here, and his handkerchief wassoiled from yesterday.  He contented himself with wetting hiseyes with the ice-cold water.  Then he sought the foreman, whowas already on the ground.

"Had your breakfast yet?" inquired that worthy.

"No," said Hurstwood.

"Better get it, then; your car won't be ready for a littlewhile."

Hurstwood hesitated.

"Could you let me have a meal ticket?" he asked with an effort.

"Here you are," said the man, handing him one.

He breakfasted as poorly as the night before on some fried steakand bad coffee.  Then he went back.

"Here," said the foreman, motioning him, when he came in.  "Youtake this car out in a few minutes."

Hurstwood climbed up on the platform in the gloomy barn andwaited for a signal.  He was nervous, and yet the thing was arelief.  Anything was better than the barn.

On this the fourth day of the strike, the situation had taken aturn for the worse.  The strikers, following the counsel of theirleaders and the newspapers, had struggled peaceably enough.There had been no great violence done.  Cars had been stopped, itis true, and the men argued with.  Some crews had been won overand led away, some windows broken, some jeering and yelling done;but in no more than five or six instances had men been seriouslyinjured.  These by crowds whose acts the leaders disclaimed.

Idleness, however, and the sight of the company, backed by thepolice, triumphing, angered the men.  They saw that each day morecars were going on, each day more declarations were being made bythe company officials that the effective opposition of thestrikers was broken.  This put desperate thoughts in the minds ofthe men.  Peaceful methods meant, they saw, that the companieswould soon run all their cars and those who had complained wouldbe forgotten.  There was nothing so helpful to the companies aspeaceful methods.All at once they blazed forth, and for a week there was storm andstress.  Cars were assailed, men attacked, policemen struggledwith, tracks torn up, and shots fired, until at last streetfights and mob movements became frequent, and the city wasinvested with militia.

Hurstwood knew nothing of the change of temper.

"Run your car out," called the foreman, waving a vigorous hand athim.  A green conductor jumped up behind and rang the bell twiceas a signal to start.  Hurstwood turned the lever and ran the carout through the door into the street in front of the barn.  Heretwo brawny policemen got up beside him on the platform--one oneither hand.

At the sound of a gong near the barn door, two bells were givenby the conductor and Hurstwood opened his lever.

The two policemen looked about them calmly.

"'Tis cold, all right, this morning," said the one on the left,who possessed a rich brogue.

"I had enough of it yesterday," said the other.  "I wouldn't wanta steady job of this."

"Nor I."

Neither paid the slightest attention to Hurstwood, who stoodfacing the cold wind, which was chilling him completely, andthinking of his orders.

"Keep a steady gait," the foreman had said.  "Don't stop for anyone who doesn't look like a real passenger.  Whatever you do,don't stop for a crowd."

The two officers kept silent for a few moments.

"The last man must have gone through all right," said the officeron the left.  "I don't see his car anywhere."

"Who's on there?" asked the second officer, referring, of course,to its complement of policemen.

"Schaeffer and Ryan."

There was another silence, in which the car ran smoothly along.There were not so many houses along this part of the way.Hurstwood did not see many people either.  The situation was notwholly disagreeable to him.  If he were not so cold, he thoughthe would do well enough.

He was brought out of this feeling by the sudden appearance of acurve ahead, which he had not expected.  He shut off the currentand did an energetic turn at the brake, but not in time to avoidan unnaturally quick turn.  It shook him up and made him feellike making some apologetic remarks, but he refrained.

"You want to look out for them things," said the officer on theleft, condescendingly.

"That's right," agreed Hurstwood, shamefacedly.

"There's lots of them on this line," said the officer on theright.Around the corner a more populated way appeared.  One or twopedestrians were in view ahead.  A boy coming out of a gate witha tin milk bucket gave Hurstwood his first objectionablegreeting.

"Scab!" he yelled.  "Scab!"

Hurstwood heard it, but tried to make no comment, even tohimself.  He knew he would get that, and much more of the samesort, probably.

At a corner farther up a man stood by the track and signalled thecar to stop.

"Never mind him," said one of the officers.  "He's up to somegame."

Hurstwood obeyed.  At the corner he saw the wisdom of it.  Nosooner did the man perceive the intention to ignore him, than heshook his fist.

"Ah, you bloody coward!" he yelled.

Some half dozen men, standing on the corner, flung taunts andjeers after the speeding car.

Hurstwood winced the least bit.  The real thing was slightlyworse than the thoughts of it had been.

Now came in sight, three or four blocks farther on, a heap ofsomething on the track.

"They've been at work, here, all right," said one of thepolicemen.

"We'll have an argument, maybe," said the other.

Hurstwood ran the car close and stopped.  He had not done sowholly, however, before a crowd gathered about.  It was composedof ex-motormen and conductors in part, with a sprinkling offriends and sympathisers.

"Come off the car, pardner," said one of the men in a voice meantto be conciliatory.  "You don't want to take the bread out ofanother man's mouth, do you?"

Hurstwood held to his brake and lever, pale and very uncertainwhat to do.

"Stand back," yelled one of the officers, leaning over theplatform railing.  "Clear out of this, now.  Give the man achance to do his work."

"Listen, pardner," said the leader, ignoring the policeman andaddressing Hurstwood.  "We're all working men, like yourself.  Ifyou were a regular motorman, and had been treated as we've been,you wouldn't want any one to come in and take your place, wouldyou? You wouldn't want any one to do you out of your chance toget your rights, would you?"

"Shut her off! shut her off!" urged the other of the policemen,roughly.  "Get out of this, now," and he jumped the railing andlanded before the crowd and began shoving.  Instantly the otherofficer was down beside him.

"Stand back, now," they yelled.  "Get out of this.  What the helldo you mean? Out, now."

It was like a small swarm of bees.

"Don't shove me," said one of the strikers, determinedly.  "I'mnot doing anything."

"Get out of this!" cried the officer, swinging his club.  "I'llgive ye a bat on the sconce.  Back, now."

"What the hell!" cried another of the strikers, pushing the otherway, adding at the same time some lusty oaths.

Crack came an officer's club on his forehead.  He blinked hiseyes blindly a few times, wabbled on his legs, threw up hishands, and staggered back.  In return, a swift fist landed on theofficer's neck.

Infuriated by this, the latter plunged left and right, layingabout madly with his club.  He was ably assisted by his brotherof the blue, who poured ponderous oaths upon the troubled waters.No severe damage was done, owing to the agility of the strikersin keeping out of reach.  They stood about the sidewalk now andjeered.

"Where is the conductor?" yelled one of the officers, getting hiseye on that individual, who had come nervously forward to standby Hurstwood.  The latter had stood gazing upon the scene withmore astonishment than fear.

"Why don't you come down here and get these stones off thetrack?" inquired the officer.  "What you standing there for? Doyou want to stay here all day? Get down."

Hurstwood breathed heavily in excitement and jumped down with thenervous conductor as if he had been called.

"Hurry up, now," said the other policeman.

Cold as it was, these officers were hot and mad.  Hurstwoodworked with the conductor, lifting stone after stone and warminghimself by the work.

"Ah, you scab, you!" yelled the crowd.  "You coward! Steal aman's job, will you? Rob the poor, will you, you thief? We'll getyou yet, now.  Wait."

Not all of this was delivered by one man.  It came from here andthere, incorporated with much more of the same sort and curses.

"Work, you blackguards," yelled a voice.  "Do the dirty work.You're the suckers that keep the poor people down!"

"May God starve ye yet," yelled an old Irish woman, who now threwopen a nearby window and stuck out her head.

"Yes, and you," she added, catching the eye of one of thepolicemen.  "You bloody, murtherin' thafe! Crack my son over thehead, will you, you hardhearted, murtherin' divil? Ah, ye----"

But the officer turned a deaf ear.

"Go to the devil, you old hag," he half muttered as he staredround upon the scattered company.

Now the stones were off, and Hurstwood took his place again amida continued chorus of epithets.  Both officers got up beside himand the conductor rang the bell, when, bang! bang! through windowand door came rocks and stones.  One narrowly grazed Hurstwood'shead.  Another shattered the window behind.

"Throw open your lever," yelled one of the officers, grabbing atthe handle himself.

Hurstwood complied and the car shot away, followed by a rattle ofstones and a rain of curses.

"That --- --- --- ---- hit me in the neck," said one of theofficers.  "I gave him a good crack for it, though."

"I think I must have left spots on some of them," said the other.

"I know that big guy that called us a --- --- --- ----" said thefirst.  "I'll get him yet for that."

"I thought we were in for it sure, once there," said the second.

Hurstwood, warmed and excited, gazed steadily ahead.  It was anastonishing experience for him.  He had read of these things, butthe reality seemed something altogether new.  He was no coward inspirit.  The fact that he had suffered this much now ratheroperated to arouse a stolid determination to stick it out.  Hedid not recur in thought to New York or the flat.  This one tripseemed a consuming thing.

They now ran into the business heart of Brooklyn uninterrupted.People gazed at the broken windows of the car and at Hurstwood inhis plain clothes.  Voices called "scab" now and then, as well asother epithets, but no crowd attacked the car.  At the downtownend of the line, one of the officers went to call up his stationand report the trouble.

"There's a gang out there," he said, "laying for us yet.  Bettersend some one over there and clean them out."

The car ran back more quietly--hooted, watched, flung at, but notattacked.  Hurstwood breathed freely when he saw the barns.

"Well," he observed to himself, "I came out of that all right."

The car was turned in and he was allowed to loaf a while, butlater he was again called.  This time a new team of officers wasaboard.  Slightly more confident, he sped the car along thecommonplace streets and felt somewhat less fearful.  On one side,however, he suffered intensely.  The day was raw, with asprinkling of snow and a gusty wind, made all the moreintolerable by the speed of the car.  His clothing was notintended for this sort of work.  He shivered, stamped his feet,and beat his arms as he had seen other motormen do in the past,but said nothing.  The novelty and danger of the situationmodified in a way his disgust and distress at being compelled tobe here, but not enough to prevent him from feeling grim andsour.  This was a dog's life, he thought.  It was a tough thingto have to come to.

The one thought that strengthened him was the insult offered byCarrie.  He was not down so low as to take all that, he thought.He could do something--this, even--for a while.  It would getbetter.  He would save a little.

A boy threw a clod of mud while he was thus reflecting and hithim upon the arm.  It hurt sharply and angered him more than hehad been any time since morning.

"The little cur!" he muttered.

"Hurt you?" asked one of the policemen.

"No," he answered.

At one of the corners, where the car slowed up because of a turn,an ex-motorman, standing on the sidewalk, called to him:

"Won't you come out, pardner, and be a man? Remember we'refighting for decent day's wages, that's all.  We've got familiesto support." The man seemed most peaceably inclined.

Hurstwood pretended not to see him.  He kept his eyes straight onbefore and opened the lever wide.  The voice had somethingappealing in it.

All morning this went on and long into the afternoon.  He madethree such trips.  The dinner he had was no stay for such workand the cold was telling on him.  At each end of the line hestopped to thaw out, but he could have groaned at the anguish ofit.  One of the barnmen, out of pity, loaned him a heavy cap anda pair of sheepskin gloves, and for once he was extremelythankful.

On the second trip of the afternoon he ran into a crowd abouthalf way along the line, that had blocked the car's progress withan old telegraph pole.

"Get that thing off the track," shouted the two policemen.

"Yah, yah, yah!" yelled the crowd.  "Get it off yourself."

The two policemen got down and Hurstwood started to follow.

"You stay there," one called.  "Some one will run away with yourcar."

Amid the babel of voices, Hurstwood heard one close beside him.

"Come down, pardner, and be a man.  Don't fight the poor.  Leavethat to the corporations."

He saw the same fellow who had called to him from the corner.Now, as before, he pretended not to hear him.

"Come down," the man repeated gently.  "You don't want to fightpoor men.  Don't fight at all." It was a most philosophic andjesuitical motorman.

A third policeman joined the other two from somewhere and someone ran to telephone for more officers.  Hurstwood gazed about,determined but fearful.

A man grabbed him by the coat.

"Come off of that," he exclaimed, jerking at him and trying topull him over the railing.

"Let go," said Hurstwood, savagely.

"I'll show you--you scab!" cried a young Irishman, jumping up onthe car and aiming a blow at Hurstwood.  The latter ducked andcaught it on the shoulder instead of the jaw.

"Away from here," shouted an officer, hastening to the rescue,and adding, of course, the usual oaths.

Hurstwood recovered himself, pale and trembling.  It was becomingserious with him now.  People were looking up and jeering at him.One girl was making faces.

He began to waver in his resolution, when a patrol wagon rolledup and more officers dismounted.  Now the track was quicklycleared and the release effected.

"Let her go now, quick," said the officer, and again he was off.

The end came with a real mob, which met the car on its returntrip a mile or two from the barns.  It was an exceedingly poor-looking neighbourhood.  He wanted to run fast through it, butagain the track was blocked.  He saw men carrying something outto it when he was yet a half-dozen blocks away.

"There they are again!" exclaimed one policeman.

"I'll give them something this time," said the second officer,whose patience was becoming worn.  Hurstwood suffered a qualm ofbody as the car rolled up.  As before, the crowd began hooting,but now, rather than come near, they threw things.  One or twowindows were smashed and Hurstwood dodged a stone.

Both policemen ran out toward the crowd, but the latter repliedby running toward the car.  A woman--a mere girl in appearance--was among these, bearing a rough stick.  She was exceedinglywrathful and struck at Hurstwood, who dodged.  Thereupon, hercompanions, duly encouraged, jumped on the car and pulledHurstwood over.  He had hardly time to speak or shout before hefell.

"Let go of me," he said, falling on his side.

"Ah, you sucker," he heard some one say.  Kicks and blows rainedon him.  He seemed to be suffocating.  Then two men seemed to bedragging him off and he wrestled for freedom.

"Let up," said a voice, "you're all right.  Stand up."

He was let loose and recovered himself.  Now he recognised twoofficers.  He felt as if he would faint from exhaustion.Something was wet on his chin.  He put up his hand and felt, thenlooked.  It was red.

"They cut me," he said, foolishly, fishing for his handkerchief.

"Now, now," said one of the officers.  "It's only a scratch."

His senses became cleared now and he looked around.  He wasstanding in a little store, where they left him for the moment.Outside, he could see, as he stood wiping his chin, the car andthe excited crowd.  A patrol wagon was there, and another.

He walked over and looked out.  It was an ambulance, backing in.

He saw some energetic charging by the police and arrests beingmade.

"Come on, now, if you want to take your car," said an officer,opening the door and looking in.He walked out, feeling rather uncertain of himself.  He was verycold and frightened.

"Where's the conductor?" he asked.

"Oh, he's not here now," said the policeman.

Hurstwood went toward the car and stepped nervously on.  As hedid so there was a pistol shot.  Something stung his shoulder.

"Who fired that?" he heard an officer exclaim.  "By God! who didthat?" Both left him, running toward a certain building.  Hepaused a moment and then got down.

"George!" exclaimed Hurstwood, weakly, "this is too much for me."

He walked nervously to the corner and hurried down a side street.

"Whew!" he said, drawing in his breath.

A half block away, a small girl gazed at him.

"You'd better sneak," she called.

He walked homeward in a blinding snowstorm, reaching the ferry bydusk.  The cabins were filled with comfortable souls, who studiedhim curiously.  His head was still in such a whirl that he feltconfused.  All the wonder of the twinkling lights of the river ina white storm passed for nothing.  He trudged doggedly on untilhe reached the flat.  There he entered and found the room warm.Carrie was gone.  A couple of evening papers were lying on thetable where she left them.  He lit the gas and sat down.  Then hegot up and stripped to examine his shoulder.  It was a merescratch.  He washed his hands and face, still in a brown study,apparently, and combed his hair.  Then he looked for something toeat, and finally, his hunger gone, sat down in his comfortablerocking-chair.  It was a wonderful relief.

He put his hand to his chin, forgetting, for the moment, thepapers.

"Well," he said, after a time, his nature recovering itself,"that's a pretty tough game over there."

Then he turned and saw the papers.  With half a sigh he picked upthe "World."

"Strike Spreading in Brooklyn," he read.  "Rioting Breaks Out inall Parts of the City."

He adjusted his paper very comfortably and continued.  It was theone thing he read with absorbing interest.

Chapter XLII

A TOUCH OF SPRING--THE EMPTY SHELL

Those who look upon Hurstwood's Brooklyn venture as an error ofjudgment will none the less realise the negative influence on himof the fact that he had tried and failed.  Carrie got a wrongidea of it.  He said so little that she imagined he hadencountered nothing worse than the ordinary roughness--quittingso soon in the face of this seemed trifling.  He did not want towork.

She was now one of a group of oriental beauties who, in thesecond act of the comic opera, were paraded by the vizier beforethe new potentate as the treasures of his harem.  There was noword assigned to any of them, but on the evening when Hurstwoodwas housing himself in the loft of the street-car barn, theleading comedian and star, feeling exceedingly facetious, said ina profound voice, which created a ripple of laughter:

"Well, who are you?"

It merely happened to be Carrie who was courtesying before him.It might as well have been any of the others, so far as he wasconcerned.  He expected no answer and a dull one would have beenreproved.  But Carrie, whose experience and belief in herselfgave her daring, courtesied sweetly again and answered:

"I am yours truly."

It was a trivial thing to say, and yet something in the way shedid it caught the audience, which laughed heartily at the mock-fierce potentate towering before the young woman.  The comedianalso liked it, hearing the laughter.

"I thought your name was Smith," he returned, endeavouring to getthe last laugh.

Carrie almost trembled for her daring after she had said this.All members of the company had been warned that to interpolatelines or "business" meant a fine or worse.  She did not know whatto think.

As she was standing in her proper position in the wings, awaitinganother entry, the great comedian made his exit past her andpaused in recognition.

"You can just leave that in hereafter," he remarked, seeing howintelligent she appeared.  "Don't add any more, though."

"Thank you," said Carrie, humbly.  When he went on she foundherself trembling violently.

"Well, you're in luck," remarked another member of the chorus."There isn't another one of us has got a line."

There was no gainsaying the value of this.  Everybody in thecompany realised that she had got a start.  Carrie hugged herselfwhen next evening the lines got the same applause.  She went homerejoicing, knowing that soon something must come of it.  It wasHurstwood who, by his presence, caused her merry thoughts to fleeand replaced them with sharp longings for an end of distress.

The next day she asked him about his venture.

"They're not trying to run any cars except with police.  Theydon't want anybody just now--not before next week."

Next week came, but Carrie saw no change.  Hurstwood seemed moreapathetic than ever.  He saw her off mornings to rehearsals andthe like with the utmost calm.  He read and read.  Several timeshe found himself staring at an item, but thinking of somethingelse.  The first of these lapses that he sharply noticedconcerned a hilarious party he had once attended at a drivingclub, of which he had been a member.  He sat, gazing downward,and gradually thought he heard the old voices and the clink ofglasses.

"You're a dandy, Hurstwood," his friend Walker said.  He wasstanding again well dressed, smiling, good-natured, the recipientof encores for a good story.

All at once he looked up.  The room was so still it seemedghostlike.  He heard the clock ticking audibly and half suspectedthat he had been dozing.  The paper was so straight in his hands,however, and the items he had been reading so directly beforehim, that he rid himself of the doze idea.  Still, it seemedpeculiar.  When it occurred a second time, however, it did notseem quite so strange.

Butcher and grocery man, baker and coal man--not the group withwhom he was then dealing, but those who had trusted him to thelimit--called.  He met them all blandly, becoming deft in excuse.At last he became bold, pretended to be out, or waved them off.

"They can't get blood out of a turnip," he said.  "if I had itI'd pay them."

Carrie's little soldier friend, Miss Osborne, seeing hersucceeding, had become a sort of satellite.  Little Osborne couldnever of herself amount to anything.  She seemed to realise it ina sort of pussy-like way and instinctively concluded to clingwith her soft little claws to Carrie.

"Oh, you'll get up," she kept telling Carrie with admiration."You're so good."

Timid as Carrie was, she was strong in capability.  The relianceof others made her feel as if she must, and when she must shedared.  Experience of the world and of necessity was in herfavour.  No longer the lightest word of a man made her headdizzy.  She had learned that men could change and fail.  Flatteryin its most palpable form had lost its force with her.  Itrequired superiority--kindly superiority--to move her--thesuperiority of a genius like Ames.

"I don't like the actors in our company," she told Lola one day."They're all so struck on themselves."

"Don't you think Mr. Barclay's pretty nice?" inquired Lola, whohad received a condescending smile or two from that quarter.

"Oh, he's nice enough," answered Carrie; "but he isn't sincere.He assumes such an air."

Lola felt for her first hold upon Carrie in the following manner:

"Are you paying room-rent where you are?"

"Certainly," answered Carrie.  "Why?"

"I know where I could get the loveliest room and bath, cheap.It's too big for me, but it would be just right for two, and therent is only six dollars a week for both."

"Where?" said Carrie.

"In Seventeenth Street."

"Well, I don't know as I'd care to change," said Carrie, who wasalready turning over the three-dollar rate in her mind.  She wasthinking if she had only herself to support this would leave herseventeen for herself.

Nothing came of this until after the Brooklyn adventure ofHurstwood's and her success with the speaking part.  Then shebegan to feel as if she must be free.  She thought of leavingHurstwood and thus making him act for himself, but he haddeveloped such peculiar traits she feared he might resist anyeffort to throw him off.  He might hunt her out at the show andhound her in that way.  She did not wholly believe that he would,but he might.  This, she knew, would be an embarrassing thing ifhe made himself conspicuous in any way.  It troubled her greatly.

Things were precipitated by the offer of a better part.  One ofthe actresses playing the part of a modest sweetheart gave noticeof leaving and Carrie was selected.

"How much are you going to get?" asked Miss Osborne, on hearingthe good news.

"I didn't ask him," said Carrie.

"Well, find out.  Goodness, you'll never get anything if youdon't ask.  Tell them you must have forty dollars, anyhow."

"Oh, no," said Carrie.

"Certainly!" exclaimed Lola.  "Ask 'em, anyway."

Carrie succumbed to this prompting, waiting, however, until themanager gave her notice of what clothing she must have to fit thepart.

"How much do I get?" she inquired.

"Thirty-five dollars," he replied.

Carrie was too much astonished and delighted to think ofmentioning forty.  She was nearly beside herself, and almosthugged Lola, who clung to her at the news.

"It isn't as much as you ought to get," said the latter,"especially when you've got to buy clothes."

Carrie remembered this with a start.  Where to get the money? Shehad none laid up for such an emergency.  Rent day was drawingnear.

"I'll not do it," she said, remembering her necessity.  "I don'tuse the flat.  I'm not going to give up my money this time.  I'llmove."

Fitting into this came another appeal from Miss Osborne, moreurgent than ever.

"Come live with me, won't you?" she pleaded.  "We can have theloveliest room.  It won't cost you hardly anything that way."

"I'd like to," said Carrie, frankly.

"Oh, do," said Lola.  "We'll have such a good time."

Carrie thought a while.

"I believe I will," she said, and then added: "I'll have to seefirst, though."With the idea thus grounded, rent day approaching, and clothescalling for instant purchase, she soon found excuse inHurstwood's lassitude.  He said less and drooped more than ever.

As rent day approached, an idea grew in him.  It was fostered bythe demands of creditors and the impossibility of holding up manymore.  Twenty-eight dollars was too much for rent.  "It's hard onher," he thought.  "We could get a cheaper place."

Stirred with this idea, he spoke at the breakfast table.

"Don't you think we pay too much rent here?" he asked.

"Indeed I do," said Carrie, not catching his drift.

"I should think we could get a smaller place," he suggested.  "Wedon't need four rooms."

Her countenance, had he been scrutinising her, would haveexhibited the disturbance she felt at this evidence of hisdetermination to stay by her.  He saw nothing remarkable inasking her to come down lower.

"Oh, I don't know," she answered, growing wary.

"There must be places around here where we could get a couple ofrooms, which would do just as well."

Her heart revolted.  "Never!" she thought.  Who would furnish themoney to move? To think of being in two rooms with him! Sheresolved to spend her money for clothes quickly, before somethingterrible happened.  That very day she did it.  Having done so,there was but one other thing to do.

"Lola," she said, visiting her friend, "I think I'll come."

"Oh, jolly!" cried the latter.

"Can we get it right away?" she asked, meaning the room.

"Certainly," cried Lola.

They went to look at it.  Carrie had saved ten dollars from herexpenditures--enough for this and her board beside.  Her enlargedsalary would not begin for ten days yet--would not reach her forseventeen.  She paid half of the six dollars with her friend.

"Now, I've just enough to get on to the end of the week," sheconfided.

"Oh, I've got some," said Lola.  "I've got twenty-five dollars,if you need it."

"No," said Carrie.  "I guess I'll get along."

They decided to move Friday, which was two days away.  Now thatthe thing was settled, Carrie's heart misgave her.  She felt verymuch like a criminal in the matter.  Each day looking atHurstwood, she had realised that, along with the disagreeablenessof his attitude, there was something pathetic.

She looked at him the same evening she had made up her mind togo, and now he seemed not so shiftless and worthless, but rundown and beaten upon by chance.  His eyes were not keen, his facemarked, his hands flabby.  She thought his hair had a touch ofgrey.  All unconscious of his doom, he rocked and read his paper,while she glanced at him.

Knowing that the end was so near, she became rather solicitous.

"Will you go over and get some canned peaches?" she askedHurstwood, laying down a two-dollar bill.

"Certainly," he said, looking in wonder at the money.

"See if you can get some nice asparagus," she added.  "I'll cookit for dinner."

Hurstwood rose and took the money, slipping on his overcoat andgetting his hat.  Carrie noticed that both of these articles ofapparel were old and poor looking in appearance.  It was plainenough before, but now it came home with peculiar force.  Perhapshe couldn't help it, after all.  He had done well in Chicago.She remembered his fine appearance the days he had met her in thepark.  Then he was so sprightly, so clean.  Had it been all hisfault?

He came back and laid the change down with the food.

"You'd better keep it," she observed.  "We'll need other things."

"No," he said, with a sort of pride; "you keep it."

"Oh, go on and keep it," she replied, rather unnerved.  "There'llbe other things."

He wondered at this, not knowing the pathetic figure he hadbecome in her eyes.  She restrained herself with difficulty fromshowing a quaver in her voice.

To say truly, this would have been Carrie's attitude in any case.She had looked back at times upon her parting from Drouet and hadregretted that she had served him so badly.  She hoped she wouldnever meet him again, but she was ashamed of her conduct.  Notthat she had any choice in the final separation.  She had gonewillingly to seek him, with sympathy in her heart, when Hurstwoodhad reported him ill.  There was something cruel somewhere, andnot being able to track it mentally to its logical lair, sheconcluded with feeling that he would never understand whatHurstwood had done and would see hard-hearted decision in herdeed; hence her shame.  Not that she cared for him.  She did notwant to make any one who had been good to her feel badly.

She did not realise what she was doing by allowing these feelingsto possess her.  Hurstwood, noticing the kindness, conceivedbetter of her.  "Carrie's good-natured, anyhow," he thought.

Going to Miss Osborne's that afternoon, she found that littlelady packing and singing.

"Why don't you come over with me today?" she asked.

"Oh, I can't," said Carrie.  "I'll be there Friday.  Would youmind lending me the twenty-five dollars you spoke of?"

"Why, no," said Lola, going for her purse.

"I want to get some other things," said Carrie.

"Oh, that's all right," answered the little girl, good-naturedly,glad to be of service.It had been days since Hurstwood had done more than go to thegrocery or to the news-stand.  Now the weariness of indoors wasupon him--had been for two days--but chill, grey weather had heldhim back.  Friday broke fair and warm.  It was one of thoselovely harbingers of spring, given as a sign in dreary winterthat earth is not forsaken of warmth and beauty.  The blueheaven, holding its one golden orb, poured down a crystal wash ofwarm light.  It was plain, from the voice of the sparrows, thatall was halcyon outside.  Carrie raised the front windows, andfelt the south wind blowing.

"It's lovely out to-day," she remarked.

"Is it?" said Hurstwood.

After breakfast, he immediately got his other clothes.

"Will you be back for lunch?" asked Carrie nervously.

"No," he said.

He went out into the streets and tramped north, along SeventhAvenue, idly fixing upon the Harlem River as an objective point.He had seen some ships up there, the time he had called upon thebrewers.  He wondered how the territory thereabouts was growing.

Passing Fifty-ninth Street, he took the west side of CentralPark, which he followed to Seventy-eighth Street.  Then heremembered the neighbourhood and turned over to look at the massof buildings erected.  It was very much improved.  The great openspaces were filling up.  Coming back, he kept to the Park until110th Street, and then turned into Seventh Avenue again, reachingthe pretty river by one o'clock.

There it ran winding before his gaze, shining brightly in theclear light, between the undulating banks on the right and thetall, tree-covered heights on the left.  The spring-likeatmosphere woke him to a sense of its loveliness, and for a fewmoments he stood looking at it, folding his hands behind hisback.  Then he turned and followed it toward the east side, idlyseeking the ships he had seen.  It was four o'clock before thewaning day, with its suggestion of a cooler evening, caused himto return.  He was hungry and would enjoy eating in the warmroom.

When he reached the flat by half-past five, it was still dark.He knew that Carrie was not there, not only because there was nolight showing through the transom, but because the evening paperswere stuck between the outside knob and the door.  He opened withhis key and went in.  Everything was still dark.  Lighting thegas, he sat down, preparing to wait a little while.  Even ifCarrie did come now, dinner would be late.  He read until six,then got up to fix something for himself.

As he did so, he noticed that the room seemed a little queer.What was it? He looked around, as if he missed something, andthen saw an envelope near where he had been sitting.  It spokefor itself, almost without further action on his part.

Reaching over, he took it, a sort of chill settling upon him evenwhile he reached.  The crackle of the envelope in his hands wasloud.  Green paper money lay soft within the note.

"Dear George," he read, crunching the money in one hand, "I'mgoing away.  I'm not coming back any more.  It's no use trying tokeep up the flat; I can't do it.  I wouldn't mind helping you, ifI could, but I can't support us both, and pay the rent.  I needwhat little I make to pay for my clothes.  I'm leaving twentydollars.  It's all I have just now.  You can do whatever you likewith the furniture.  I won't want it.--CARRIE.

He dropped the note and looked quietly round.  Now he knew whathe missed.  It was the little ornamental clock, which was hers.It had gone from the mantelpiece.  He went into the front room,his bedroom, the parlour, lighting the gas as he went.  From thechiffonier had gone the knick-knacks of silver and plate.  Fromthe table-top, the lace coverings.  He opened the wardrobe--noclothes of hers.  He opened the drawers--nothing of hers.  Hertrunk was gone from its accustomed place.  Back in his own roomhung his old clothes, just as he had left them.  Nothing else wasgone.

He stepped into the parlour and stood for a few moments lookingvacantly at the floor.  The silence grew oppressive.  The littleflat seemed wonderfully deserted.  He wholly forgot that he washungry, that it was only dinner-time.  It seemed later in thenight.

Suddenly, he found that the money was still in his hands.  Therewere twenty dollars in all, as she had said.  Now he walked back,leaving the lights ablaze, and feeling as if the flat were empty.

"I'll get out of this," he said to himself.

Then the sheer loneliness of his situation rushed upon him infull.

"Left me!" he muttered, and repeated, "left me!"

The place that had been so comfortable, where he had spent somany days of warmth, was now a memory.  Something colder andchillier confronted him.  He sank down in his chair, resting hischin in his hand--mere sensation, without thought, holding him.

Then something like a bereaved affection and self-pity swept overhim.

"She needn't have gone away," he said.  "I'd have got something."

He sat a long while without rocking, and added quite clearly, outloud:

"I tried, didn't I?"

At midnight he was still rocking, staring at the floor.

Chapter XLIII

THE WORLD TURNS FLATTERER--AN EYE IN THE DARK

Installed in her comfortable room, Carrie wondered how Hurstwoodhad taken her departure.  She arranged a few things hastily andthen left for the theatre, half expecting to encounter him at thedoor.  Not finding him, her dread lifted, and she felt morekindly toward him.  She quite forgot him until about to come out,after the show, when the chance of his being there frightenedher.  As day after day passed and she heard nothing at all, thethought of being bothered by him passed.  In a little while shewas, except for occasional thoughts, wholly free of the gloomwith which her life had been weighed in the flat.

It is curious to note how quickly a profession absorbs one.Carrie became wise in theatrical lore, hearing the gossip oflittle Lola.  She learned what the theatrical papers were, whichones published items about actresses and the like.  She began toread the newspaper notices, not only of the opera in which shehad so small a part, but of others.  Gradually the desire fornotice took hold of her.  She longed to be renowned like others,and read with avidity all the complimentary or critical commentsmade concerning others high in her profession.  The showy worldin which her interest lay completely absorbed her.

It was about this time that the newspapers and magazines werebeginning to pay that illustrative attention to the beauties ofthe stage which has since become fervid.  The newspapers, andparticularly the Sunday newspapers, indulged in large decorativetheatrical pages, in which the faces and forms of well-knowntheatrical celebrities appeared, enclosed with artistic scrolls.The magazines also or at least one or two of the newer ones--published occasional portraits of pretty stars, and now and againphotos of scenes from various plays.  Carrie watched these withgrowing interest.  When would a scene from her opera appear? Whenwould some paper think her photo worth while?

The Sunday before taking her new part she scanned the theatricalpages for some little notice.  It would have accorded with herexpectations if nothing had been said, but there in the squibs,tailing off several more substantial items, was a wee notice.Carrie read it with a tingling body:

"The part of Katisha, the country maid, in 'The Wives of Abdul'at the Broadway, heretofore played by Inez Carew, will behereafter filled by Carrie Madenda, one of the cleverest membersof the chorus."

Carrie hugged herself with delight.  Oh, wasn't it just fine! Atlast! The first, the long-hoped for, the delightful notice! Andthey called her clever.  She could hardly restrain herself fromlaughing loudly.  Had Lola seen it?

"They've got a notice here of the part I'm going to play to-morrow night," said Carrie to her friend.

"Oh, jolly! Have they?" cried Lola, running to her.  "That's allright," she said, looking.  "You'll get more now, if you do well.I had my picture in the 'World' once."

"Did you?" asked Carrie.

"Did I? Well, I should say," returned the little girl.  "They hada frame around it."

Carrie laughed.

"They've never published my picture."

"But they will," said Lola.  "You'll see.  You do better thanmost that get theirs in now."

Carrie felt deeply grateful for this.  She almost loved Lola forthe sympathy and praise she extended.  It was so helpful to her--so almost necessary.

Fulfilling her part capably brought another notice in the papersthat she was doing her work acceptably.  This pleased herimmensely.  She began to think the world was taking note of her.

The first week she got her thirty-five dollars, it seemed anenormous sum.  Paying only three dollars for room rent seemedridiculous.  After giving Lola her twenty-five, she still hadseven dollars left.  With four left over from previous earnings,she had eleven.  Five of this went to pay the regular installmenton the clothes she had to buy.  The next week she was even ingreater feather.  Now, only three dollars need be paid for roomrent and five on her clothes.  The rest she had for food and herown whims.

"You'd better save a little for summer," cautioned Lola.  "We'llprobably close in May."

"I intend to," said Carrie.

The regular entrance of thirty-five dollars a week to one who hasendured scant allowances for several years is a demoralisingthing.  Carrie found her purse bursting with good green bills ofcomfortable denominations.  Having no one dependent upon her, shebegan to buy pretty clothes and pleasing trinkets, to eat well,and to ornament her room.  Friends were not long in gatheringabout.  She met a few young men who belonged to Lola's staff.The members of the opera company made her acquaintance withoutthe formality of introduction.  One of these discovered a fancyfor her.  On several occasions he strolled home with her.

"Let's stop in and have a rarebit," he suggested one midnight.

"Very well," said Carrie.

In the rosy restaurant, filled with the merry lovers of latehours, she found herself criticising this man.  He was toostilted, too self-opinionated.  He did not talk of anything thatlifted her above the common run of clothes and material success.When it was all over, he smiled most graciously.

"Got to go straight home, have you?" he said.

"Yes," she answered, with an air of quiet understanding.

"She's not so inexperienced as she looks," he thought, andthereafter his respect and ardour were increased.

She could not help sharing in Lola's love for a good time.  Therewere days when they went carriage riding, nights when after theshow they dined, afternoons when they strolled along Broadway,tastefully dressed.  She was getting in the metropolitan whirl ofpleasure.

At last her picture appeared in one of the weeklies.  She had notknown of it, and it took her breath.  "Miss Carrie Madenda," itwas labelled.  "One of the favourites of 'The Wives of Abdul'company." At Lola's advice she had had some pictures taken bySarony.  They had got one there.  She thought of going down andbuying a few copies of the paper, but remembered that there wasno one she knew well enough to send them to.  Only Lola,apparently, in all the world was interested.

The metropolis is a cold place socially, and Carrie soon foundthat a little money brought her nothing.  The world of wealth anddistinction was quite as far away as ever.  She could feel thatthere was no warm, sympathetic friendship back of the easymerriment with which many approached her.  All seemed to beseeking their own amusement, regardless of the possible sadconsequence to others.  So much for the lessons of Hurstwood andDrouet.

In April she learned that the opera would probably last until themiddle or the end of May, according to the size of the audiences.Next season it would go on the road.  She wondered if she wouldbe with it.  As usual, Miss Osborne, owing to her moderatesalary, was for securing a home engagement.

"They're putting on a summer play at the Casino," she announced,after figuratively putting her ear to the ground.  "Let's try andget in that."

"I'm willing," said Carrie.

They tried in time and were apprised of the proper date to applyagain.  That was May 16th.  Meanwhile their own show closed May5th.

"Those that want to go with the show next season," said themanager, "will have to sign this week."

"Don't you sign," advised Lola.  "I wouldn't go."

"I know," said Carrie, "but maybe I can't get anything else."

"Well, I won't," said the little girl, who had a resource in heradmirers.  "I went once and I didn't have anything at the end ofthe season."

Carrie thought this over.  She had never been on the road.

"We can get along," added Lola.  "I always have."

Carrie did not sign.

The manager who was putting on the summer skit at the Casino hadnever heard of Carrie, but the several notices she had received,her published picture, and the programme bearing her name hadsome little weight with him.  He gave her a silent part at thirtydollars a week.

"Didn't I tell you?" said Lola.  "It doesn't do you any good togo away from New York.  They forget all about you if you do."

Now, because Carrie was pretty, the gentlemen who made up theadvance illustrations of shows about to appear for the Sundaypapers selected Carrie's photo along with others to illustratethe announcement.  Because she was very pretty, they gave itexcellent space and drew scrolls about it.  Carrie was delighted.Still, the management did not seem to have seen anything of it.At least, no more attention was paid to her than before.  At thesame time there seemed very little in her part.  It consisted ofstanding around in all sorts of scenes, a silent littleQuakeress.  The author of the skit had fancied that a great dealcould be made of such a part, given to the right actress, butnow, since it had been doled out to Carrie, he would as leavehave had it cut out.

"Don't kick, old man," remarked the manager.  "If it don't go thefirst week we will cut it out."

Carrie had no warning of this halcyon intention.  She practisedher part ruefully, feeling that she was effectually shelved.  Atthe dress rehearsal she was disconsolate.

"That isn't so bad," said the author, the manager noting thecurious effect which Carrie's blues had upon the part.  "Tell herto frown a little more when Sparks dances."

Carrie did not know it, but there was the least show of wrinklesbetween her eyes and her mouth was puckered quaintly.

"Frown a little more, Miss Madenda," said the stage manager.

Carrie instantly brightened up, thinking he had meant it as arebuke.

"No; frown," he said.  "Frown as you did before."

Carrie looked at him in astonishment.

"I mean it," he said.  "Frown hard when Mr. Sparks dances.  Iwant to see how it looks."

It was easy enough to do.  Carrie scowled.  The effect wassomething so quaint and droll it caught even the manager.

"That is good," he said.  "If she'll do that all through, I thinkit will take."

Going over to Carrie, he said:

"Suppose you try frowning all through.  Do it hard.  Look mad.It'll make the part really funny."

On the opening night it looked to Carrie as if there were nothingto her part, after all.  The happy, sweltering audience did notseem to see her in the first act.  She frowned and frowned, butto no effect.  Eyes were riveted upon the more elaborate effortsof the stars.

In the second act, the crowd, wearied by a dull conversation,roved with its eyes about the stage and sighted her.  There shewas, grey-suited, sweet-faced, demure, but scowling.  At firstthe general idea was that she was temporarily irritated, that thelook was genuine and not fun at all.  As she went on frowning,looking now at one principal and now at the other, the audiencebegan to smile.  The portly gentlemen in the front rows began tofeel that she was a delicious little morsel.  It was the kind offrown they would have loved to force away with kisses.  All thegentlemen yearned toward her.  She was capital.

At last, the chief comedian, singing in the centre of the stage,noticed a giggle where it was not expected.  Then another andanother.  When the place came for loud applause it was onlymoderate.  What could be the trouble? He realised that somethingwas up.

All at once, after an exit, he caught sight of Carrie.  She wasfrowning alone on the stage and the audience was giggling andlaughing.

"By George, I won't stand that!" thought the thespian.  "I'm notgoing to have my work cut up by some one else.  Either she quitsthat when I do my turn or I quit."

"Why, that's all right," said the manager, when the kick came."That's what she's supposed to do.  You needn't pay any attentionto that."

"But she ruins my work."

"No, she don't," returned the former, soothingly.  "It's only alittle fun on the side."

"It is, eh?" exclaimed the big comedian.  "She killed my hand allright.  I'm not going to stand that."

"Well, wait until after the show.  Wait until to-morrow.  We'llsee what we can do."

The next act, however, settled what was to be done.  Carrie wasthe chief feature of the play.  The audience, the more it studiedher, the more it indicated its delight.  Every other featurepaled beside the quaint, teasing, delightful atmosphere whichCarrie contributed while on the stage.  Manager and companyrealised she had made a hit.

The critics of the daily papers completed her triumph.  Therewere long notices in praise of the quality of the burlesque,touched with recurrent references to Carrie.  The contagiousmirth of the thing was repeatedly emphasised.

"Miss Madenda presents one of the most delightful bits ofcharacter work ever seen on the Casino stage," observed the stagecritic of the "Sun."  "It is a bit of quiet, unassuming drollerywhich warms like good wine.  Evidently the part was not intendedto take precedence, as Miss Madenda is not often on the stage,but the audience, with the characteristic perversity of suchbodies, selected for itself.  The little Quakeress was marked fora favourite the moment she appeared, and thereafter easily heldattention and applause.  The vagaries of fortune are indeedcurious."

The critic of the "Evening World," seeking as usual to establisha catch phrase which should "go" with the town, wound up byadvising: "If you wish to be merry, see Carrie frown."

The result was miraculous so far as Carrie's fortune wasconcerned.  Even during the morning she received a congratulatorymessage from the manager.

"You seem to have taken the town by storm," he wrote.  "This isdelightful.  I am as glad for your sake as for my own."

The author also sent word.

That evening when she entered the theatre the manager had a mostpleasant greeting for her.

"Mr. Stevens," he said, referring to the author, "is preparing alittle song, which he would like you to sing next week."

"Oh, I can't sing," returned Carrie.

"It isn't anything difficult.  'It's something that is verysimple,' he says, 'and would suit you exactly.'"

"Of course, I wouldn't mind trying," said Carrie, archly.

"Would you mind coming to the box-office a few moments before youdress?" observed the manager, in addition.  "There's a littlematter I want to speak to you about."

"Certainly," replied Carrie.

In that latter place the manager produced a paper.

"Now, of course," he said, "we want to be fair with you in thematter of salary.  Your contract here only calls for thirtydollars a week for the next three months.  How would it do tomake it, say, one hundred and fifty a week and extend it fortwelve months?"

"Oh, very well," said Carrie, scarcely believing her ears.

"Supposing, then, you just sign this."

Carrie looked and beheld a new contract made out like the otherone, with the exception of the new figures of salary and time.With a hand trembling from excitement she affixed her name.

"One hundred and fifty a week!" she murmured, when she was againalone.  She found, after all--as what millionaire has not?--thatthere was no realising, in consciousness, the meaning of largesums.  It was only a shimmering, glittering phrase in which lay aworld of possibilities.

Down in a third-rate Bleecker Street hotel, the broodingHurstwood read the dramatic item covering Carrie's success,without at first realising who was meant.  Then suddenly it cameto him and he read the whole thing over again.

"That's her, all right, I guess," he said.

Then he looked about upon a dingy, moth-eaten hotel lobby.

"I guess she's struck it," he thought, a picture of the oldshiny, plush-covered world coming back, with its lights, itsornaments, its carriages, and flowers.  Ah, she was in the walledcity now! Its splendid gates had opened, admitting her from acold, dreary outside.  She seemed a creature afar off--like everyother celebrity he had known.

"Well, let her have it," he said.  "I won't bother her."

It was the grim resolution of a bent, bedraggled, but unbrokenpride.

Chapter XLIV

AND THIS IS NOT ELF LAND--WHAT GOLD WILL NOT BUY

When Carrie got back on the stage, she found that over night herdressing-room had been changed.

"You are to use this room, Miss Madenda," said one of the stagelackeys.

No longer any need of climbing several flights of steps to asmall coop shared with another.  Instead, a comparatively largeand commodious chamber with conveniences not enjoyed by the smallfry overhead.  She breathed deeply and with delight.  Hersensations were more physical than mental.  In fact, she wasscarcely thinking at all.  Heart and body were having their say.

Gradually the deference and congratulation gave her a mentalappreciation of her state.  She was no longer ordered, butrequested, and that politely.  The other members of the castlooked at her enviously as she came out arrayed in her simplehabit, which she wore all through the play.  All those who hadsupposedly been her equals and superiors now smiled the smile ofsociability, as much as to say: "How friendly we have alwaysbeen." Only the star comedian whose part had been so deeplyinjured stalked by himself.  Figuratively, he could not kiss thehand that smote him.

Doing her simple part, Carrie gradually realised the meaning ofthe applause which was for her, and it was sweet.  She feltmildly guilty of something--perhaps unworthiness.  When herassociates addressed her in the wings she only smiled weakly.The pride and daring of place were not for her.  It never oncecrossed her mind to be reserved or haughty--to be other than shehad been.  After the performances she rode to her room with Lola,in a carriage provided.

Then came a week in which the first fruits of success wereoffered to her lips--bowl after bowl.  It did not matter that hersplendid salary had not begun.  The world seemed satisfied withthe promise.  She began to get letters and cards.  A Mr. Withers--whom she did not know from Adam--having learned by some hook orcrook where she resided, bowed himself politely in.

"You will excuse me for intruding," he said; "but have you beenthinking of changing your apartments?"

"I hadn't thought of it," returned Carrie.

"Well, I am connected with the Wellington--the new hotel onBroadway.  You have probably seen notices of it in the papers."

Carrie recognised the name as standing for one of the newest andmost imposing hostelries.  She had heard it spoken of as having asplendid restaurant.

"Just so," went on Mr. Withers, accepting her acknowledgment offamiliarity.  "We have some very elegant rooms at present whichwe would like to have you look at, if you have not made up yourmind where you intend to reside for the summer.  Our apartmentsare perfect in every detail--hot and cold water, private baths,special hall service for every floor, elevators, and all that.You know what our restaurant is."

Carrie looked at him quietly.  She was wondering whether he tookher to be a millionaire.

"What are your rates?" she inquired.

"Well, now, that is what I came to talk with you privately about.Our regular rates are anywhere from three to fifty dollars aday."

"Mercy!" interrupted Carrie.  "I couldn't pay any such rate asthat."

"I know how you feel about it," exclaimed Mr. Withers, halting."But just let me explain.  I said those are our regular rates.Like every other hotel we make special ones however.  Possiblyyou have not thought about it, but your name is worth somethingto us.""Oh!" ejaculated Carrie, seeing at a glance.

"Of course.  Every hotel depends upon the repute of its patrons.A well-known actress like yourself," and he bowed politely, whileCarrie flushed, "draws attention to the hotel, and--although youmay not believe it--patrons."

"Oh, yes," returned Carrie, vacantly, trying to arrange thiscurious proposition in her mind.

"Now," continued Mr. Withers, swaying his derby hat softly andbeating one of his polished shoes upon the floor, "I want toarrange, if possible, to have you come and stop at theWellington.  You need not trouble about terms.  In fact, we needhardly discuss them.  Anything will do for the summer--a merefigure--anything that you think you could afford to pay."

Carrie was about to interrupt, but he gave her no chance.

"You can come to-day or to-morrow--the earlier the better--and wewill give you your choice of nice, light, outside rooms--the verybest we have."

"You're very kind," said Carrie, touched by the agent's extremeaffability.  "I should like to come very much.  I would want topay what is right, however.  I shouldn't want to----"

"You need not trouble about that at all," interrupted Mr.Withers.  "We can arrange that to your entire satisfaction at anytime.  If three dollars a day is satisfactory to you, it will beso to us.  All you have to do is to pay that sum to the clerk atthe end of the week or month, just as you wish, and he will giveyou a receipt for what the rooms would cost if charged for at ourregular rates."

The speaker paused.

"Suppose you come and look at the rooms," he added.

"I'd be glad to," said Carrie, "but I have a rehearsal thismorning."

"I did not mean at once," he returned.  "Any time will do.  Wouldthis afternoon be inconvenient?"

"Not at all," said Carrie.

Suddenly she remembered Lola, who was out at the time.

"I have a room-mate," she added, "who will have to go wherever Ido.  I forgot about that."

"Oh, very well," said Mr. Withers, blandly.  "It is for you tosay whom you want with you.  As I say, all that can be arrangedto suit yourself."

He bowed and backed toward the door.

"At four, then, we may expect you?"

"Yes," said Carrie.

"I will be there to show you," and so Mr. Withers withdrew.

After rehearsal Carrie informed Lola."Did they really?" exclaimed the latter, thinking of theWellington as a group of managers.  "Isn't that fine? Oh, jolly!It's so swell.  That's where we dined that night we went withthose two Cushing boys.  Don't you know?"

"I remember," said Carrie.

"Oh, it's as fine as it can be."

"We'd better be going up there," observed Carrie later in theafternoon.

The rooms which Mr. Withers displayed to Carrie and Lola werethree and bath--a suite on the parlour floor.  They were done inchocolate and dark red, with rugs and hangings to match.  Threewindows looked down into busy Broadway on the east, three into aside street which crossed there.  There were two lovely bedrooms,set with brass and white enamel beds, white ribbon-trimmed chairsand chiffoniers to match.  In the third room, or parlour, was apiano, a heavy piano lamp, with a shade of gorgeous pattern, alibrary table, several huge easy rockers, some dado book shelves,and a gilt curio case, filled with oddities.  Pictures were uponthe walls, soft Turkish pillows upon the divan footstools ofbrown plush upon the floor.  Such accommodations would ordinarilycost a hundred dollars a week.

"Oh, lovely!" exclaimed Lola, walking about.

"It is comfortable," said Carrie, who was lifting a lace curtainand looking down into crowded Broadway.

The bath was a handsome affair, done in white enamel, with alarge, blue-bordered stone tub and nickel trimmings.  It wasbright and commodious, with a bevelled mirror set in the wall atone end and incandescent lights arranged in three places.

"Do you find these satisfactory?" observed Mr. Withers.

"Oh, very," answered Carrie.

"Well, then, any time you find it convenient to move in, they areready.  The boy will bring you the keys at the door."

Carrie noted the elegantly carpeted and decorated hall, themarbled lobby, and showy waiting-room.  It was such a place asshe had often dreamed of occupying.

"I guess we'd better move right away, don't you think so?" sheobserved to Lola, thinking of the commonplace chamber inSeventeenth Street.

"Oh, by all means," said the latter.

The next day her trunks left for the new abode.

Dressing, after the matinee on Wednesday, a knock came at herdressing-room door.

Carrie looked at the card handed by the boy and suffered a shockof surprise.

"Tell her I'll be right out," she said softly.  Then, looking atthe card, added: "Mrs. Vance."

"Why, you little sinner," the latter exclaimed, as she saw Carriecoming toward her across the now vacant stage.  "How in the worlddid this happen?"

Carrie laughed merrily.  There was no trace of embarrassment inher friend's manner.  You would have thought that the longseparation had come about accidentally.

"I don't know," returned Carrie, warming, in spite of her firsttroubled feelings, toward this handsome, good-natured youngmatron.

"Well, you know, I saw your picture in the Sunday paper, but yourname threw me off.  I thought it must be you or somebody thatlooked just like you, and I said: 'Well, now, I will go rightdown there and see.' I was never more surprised in my life.  Howare you, anyway?"

"Oh, very well," returned Carrie.  "How have you been?"

"Fine.  But aren't you a success! Dear, oh! All the paperstalking about you.  I should think you would be just too proud tobreathe.  I was almost afraid to come back here this afternoon."

"Oh, nonsense," said Carrie, blushing.  "You know I'd be glad tosee you."

"Well, anyhow, here you are.  Can't you come up and take dinnerwith me now? Where are you stopping?"

"At the Wellington," said Carrie, who permitted herself a touchof pride in the acknowledgment.

"Oh, are you?" exclaimed the other, upon whom the name was notwithout its proper effect.

Tactfully, Mrs. Vance avoided the subject of Hurstwood, of whomshe could not help thinking.  No doubt Carrie had left him.  Thatmuch she surmised.

"Oh, I don't think I can," said Carrie, "to-night.  I have solittle time.  I must be back here by 7.30.  Won't you come anddine with me?"

"I'd be delighted, but I can't to-night," said Mrs. Vancestudying Carrie's fine appearance.  The latter's good fortunemade her seem more than ever worthy and delightful in the otherseyes.  "I promised faithfully to be home at six." Glancing at thesmall gold watch pinned to her bosom, she added: "I must begoing, too.  Tell me when you're coming up, if at all."

"Why, any time you like," said Carrie.

"Well, to-morrow then.  I'm living at the Chelsea now."

"Moved again?" exclaimed Carrie, laughing.

"Yes.  You know I can't stay six months in one place.  I justhave to move.  Remember now--half-past five."

"I won't forget," said Carrie, casting a glance at her as shewent away.  Then it came to her that she was as good as thiswoman now--perhaps better.  Something in the other's solicitudeand interest made her feel as if she were the one to condescend.

Now, as on each preceding day, letters were handed her by thedoorman at the Casino.  This was a feature which had rapidlydeveloped since Monday.  What they contained she well knew.  MASHNOTES were old affairs in their mildest form.  She rememberedhaving received her first one far back in Columbia City.  Sincethen, as a chorus girl, she had received others--gentlemen whoprayed for an engagement.  They were common sport between her andLola, who received some also.  They both frequently made light ofthem.

Now, however, they came thick and fast.  Gentlemen with fortunesdid not hesitate to note, as an addition to their own amiablecollection of virtues, that they had their horses and carriages.Thus one:

"I have a million in my own right.  I could give you everyluxury.  There isn't anything you could ask for that you couldn'thave.  I say this, not because I want to speak of my money, butbecause I love you and wish to gratify your every desire.  It islove that prompts me to write.  Will you not give me one half-hour in which to plead my cause?"

Such of these letters as came while Carrie was still in theSeventeenth Street place were read with more interest--thoughnever delight--than those which arrived after she was installedin her luxurious quarters at the Wellington.  Even there hervanity--or that self-appreciation which, in its more rabid form,is called vanity--was not sufficiently cloyed to make thesethings wearisome.  Adulation, being new in any form, pleased her.Only she was sufficiently wise to distinguish between her oldcondition and her new one.  She had not had fame or money before.Now they had come.  She had not had adulation and affectionatepropositions before.  Now they had come.  Wherefore? She smiledto think that men should suddenly find her so much moreattractive.  In the least way it incited her to coolness andindifference.

"Do look here," she remarked to Lola.  "See what this man says:'If you will only deign to grant me one half-hour,'" sherepeated, with an imitation of languor.  "The idea.  Aren't mensilly?"

"He must have lots of money, the way he talks," observed Lola."That's what they all say," said Carrie, innocently.

"Why don't you see him," suggested Lola, "and hear what he has tosay?"

"Indeed I won't," said Carrie.  "I know what he'd say.  I don'twant to meet anybody that way."

Lola looked at her with big, merry eyes.

"He couldn't hurt you," she returned.  "You might have some funwith him."

Carrie shook her head.

"You're awfully queer," returned the little, blue-eyed soldier.

Thus crowded fortune.  For this whole week, though her largesalary had not yet arrived, it was as if the world understood andtrusted her.  Without money--or the requisite sum, at least--sheenjoyed the luxuries which money could buy.  For her the doors offine places seemed to open quite without the asking.  Thesepalatial chambers, how marvellously they came to her.  Theelegant apartments of Mrs. Vance in the Chelsea--these were hers.Men sent flowers, love notes, offers of fortune.  And still herdreams ran riot.  The one hundred and fifty! the one hundred andfifty! What a door to an Aladdin's cave it seemed to be.  Eachday, her head almost turned by developments, her fancies of whather fortune must be, with ample money, grew and multiplied.  Sheconceived of delights which were not--saw lights of joy thatnever were on land or sea.  Then, at last, after a world ofanticipation, came her first installment of one hundred and fiftydollars.

It was paid to her in greenbacks--three twenties, six tens, andsix fives.  Thus collected it made a very convenient roll.  Itwas accompanied by a smile and a salutation from the cashier whopaid it.

"Ah, yes," said the latter, when she applied; "Miss Madenda--onehundred and fifty dollars.  Quite a success the show seems tohave made."

"Yes, indeed," returned Carrie.

Right after came one of the insignificant members of the company,and she heard the changed tone of address.

"How much?" said the same cashier, sharply.  One, such as she hadonly recently been, was waiting for her modest salary.  It tookher back to the few weeks in which she had collected--or ratherhad received--almost with the air of a domestic, four-fifty perweek from a lordly foreman in a shoe factory--a man who, indistributing the envelopes, had the manner of a prince doling outfavours to a servile group of petitioners.  She knew that out inChicago this very day the same factory chamber was full of poorhomely-clad girls working in long lines at clattering machines;that at noon they would eat a miserable lunch in a half-hour;that Saturday they would gather, as they had when she was one ofthem, and accept the small pay for work a hundred times harderthan she was now doing.  Oh, it was so easy now! The world was sorosy and bright.  She felt so thrilled that she must needs walkback to the hotel to think, wondering what she should do.

It does not take money long to make plain its impotence,providing the desires are in the realm of affection.  With herone hundred and fifty in hand, Carrie could think of nothingparticularly to do.  In itself, as a tangible, apparent thingwhich she could touch and look upon, it was a diverting thing fora few days, but this soon passed.  Her hotel bill did not requireits use.  Her clothes had for some time been wholly satisfactory.Another day or two and she would receive another hundred andfifty.  It began to appear as if this were not so startlinglynecessary to maintain her present state.  If she wanted to doanything better or move higher she must have more--a great dealmore.

Now a critic called to get up one of those tinsel interviewswhich shine with clever observations, show up the wit of critics,display the folly of celebrities, and divert the public.  Heliked Carrie, and said so, publicly--adding, however, that shewas merely pretty, good-natured, and lucky.  This cut like aknife.  The "Herald," getting up an entertainment for the benefitof its free ice fund, did her the honour to beg her to appearalong with celebrities for nothing.  She was visited by a youngauthor, who had a play which he thought she could produce.  Alas,she could not judge.  It hurt her to think it.  Then she foundshe must put her money in the bank for safety, and so moving,finally reached the place where it struck her that the door tolife's perfect enjoyment was not open.

Gradually she began to think it was because it was summer.Nothing was going on much save such entertainments as the one inwhich she was the star.  Fifth Avenue was boarded up where therich had deserted their mansions.  Madison Avenue was littlebetter.  Broadway was full of loafing thespians in search of nextseason's engagements.  The whole city was quiet and her nightswere taken up with her work.  Hence the feeling that there waslittle to do.

"I don't know," she said to Lola one day, sitting at one of thewindows which looked down into Broadway, "I get lonely; don'tyou?"

"No," said Lola, "not very often.  You won't go anywhere.  That'swhat's the matter with you."

"Where can I go?"

"Why, there're lots of places," returned Lola, who was thinkingof her own lightsome tourneys with the gay youths.  "You won't gowith anybody."

"I don't want to go with these people who write to me.  I knowwhat kind they are."

"You oughtn't to be lonely," said Lola, thinking of Carrie'ssuccess.  "There're lots would give their ears to be in yourshoes."

Carrie looked out again at the passing crowd.

"I don't know," she said.

Unconsciously her idle hands were beginning to weary.

Chapter XLV

CURIOUS SHIFTS OF THE POOR

The gloomy Hurstwood, sitting in his cheap hotel, where he hadtaken refuge with seventy dollars--the price of his furniture--between him and nothing, saw a hot summer out and a cool fall in,reading.  He was not wholly indifferent to the fact that hismoney was slipping away.  As fifty cents after fifty cents werepaid out for a day's lodging he became uneasy, and finally took acheaper room--thirty-five cents a day--to make his money lastlonger.  Frequently he saw notices of Carrie.  Her picture was inthe "World" once or twice, and an old "Herald" he found in achair informed him that she had recently appeared with someothers at a benefit for something or other.  He read these thingswith mingled feelings.  Each one seemed to put her farther andfarther away into a realm which became more imposing as itreceded from him.  On the billboards, too, he saw a prettyposter, showing her as the Quaker Maid, demure and dainty.  Morethan once he stopped and looked at these, gazing at the prettyface in a sullen sort of way.  His clothes were shabby, and hepresented a marked contrast to all that she now seemed to be.

Somehow, so long as he knew she was at the Casino, though he hadnever any intention of going near her, there was a subconsciouscomfort for him--he was not quite alone.  The show seemed such afixture that, after a month or two, he began to take it forgranted that it was still running.  In September it went on theroad and he did not notice it.  When all but twenty dollars ofhis money was gone, he moved to a fifteen-cent lodging-house inthe Bowery, where there was a bare lounging-room filled withtables and benches as well as some chairs.  Here his preferencewas to close his eyes and dream of other days, a habit which grewupon him.  It was not sleep at first, but a mental hearkeningback to scenes and incidents in his Chicago life.  As the presentbecame darker, the past grew brighter, and all that concerned itstood in relief.

He was unconscious of just how much this habit had hold of himuntil one day he found his lips repeating an old answer he hadmade to one of his friends.  They were in Fitzgerald and Moy's.It was as if he stood in the door of his elegant little office,comfortably dressed, talking to Sagar Morrison about the value ofSouth Chicago real estate in which the latter was about toinvest.

"How would you like to come in on that with me?" he heardMorrison say.

"Not me," he answered, just as he had years before.  "I have myhands full now."

The movement of his lips aroused him.  He wondered whether he hadreally spoken.  The next time he noticed anything of the sort hereally did talk.

"Why don't you jump, you bloody fool?" he was saying.  "Jump!"

It was a funny English story he was telling to a company ofactors.  Even as his voice recalled him, he was smiling.  Acrusty old codger, sitting near by, seemed disturbed; at least,he stared in a most pointed way.  Hurstwood straightened up.  Thehumour of the memory fled in an instant and he felt ashamed.  Forrelief, he left his chair and strolled out into the streets.

One day, looking down the ad. columns of the "Evening World," hesaw where a new play was at the Casino.  Instantly, he came to amental halt.  Carrie had gone! He remembered seeing a poster ofher only yesterday, but no doubt it was one left uncovered by thenew signs.  Curiously, this fact shook him up.  He had almost toadmit that somehow he was depending upon her being in the city.Now she was gone.  He wondered how this important fact hadskipped him.  Goodness knows when she would be back now.Impelled by a nervous fear, he rose and went into the dingy hall,where he counted his remaining money, unseen.  There were but tendollars in all.

He wondered how all these other lodging-house people around himgot along.  They didn't seem to do anything.  Perhaps theybegged--unquestionably they did.  Many was the dime he had givento such as they in his day.  He had seen other men asking formoney on the streets.  Maybe he could get some that way.  Therewas horror in this thought.

Sitting in the lodging-house room, he came to his last fiftycents.  He had saved and counted until his health was affected.His stoutness had gone.  With it, even the semblance of a fit inhis clothes.  Now he decided he must do something, and, walkingabout, saw another day go by, bringing him down to his lasttwenty cents--not enough to eat for the morrow.

Summoning all his courage, he crossed to Broadway and up to theBroadway Central hotel.  Within a block he halted, undecided.  Abig, heavy-faced porter was standing at one of the sideentrances, looking out.  Hurstwood purposed to appeal to him.Walking straight up, he was upon him before he could turn away.

"My friend," he said, recognising even in his plight the man'sinferiority, "is there anything about this hotel that I could getto do?"

The porter stared at him the while he continued to talk.

"I'm out of work and out of money and I've got to get something,--it doesn't matter what.  I don't care to talk about what I'vebeen, but if you'd tell me how to get something to do, I'd bemuch obliged to you.  It wouldn't matter if it only lasted a fewdays just now.  I've got to have something."

The porter still gazed, trying to look indifferent.  Then, seeingthat Hurstwood was about to go on, he said:

"I've nothing to do with it.  You'll have to ask inside."

Curiously, this stirred Hurstwood to further effort.

"I thought you might tell me."

The fellow shook his head irritably.

Inside went the ex-manager and straight to an office off theclerk's desk.  One of the managers of the hotel happened to bethere.  Hurstwood looked him straight in the eye.

"Could you give me something to do for a few days?" he said."I'm in a position where I have to get something at once."

The comfortable manager looked at him, as much as to say: "Well,I should judge so."

"I came here," explained Hurstwood, nervously, "because I've beena manager myself in my day.  I've had bad luck in a way but I'mnot here to tell you that.  I want something to do, if only for aweek."

The man imagined he saw a feverish gleam in the applicant's eye.

"What hotel did you manage?" he inquired.

"It wasn't a hotel," said Hurstwood.  "I was manager ofFitzgerald and Moy's place in Chicago for fifteen years."

"Is that so?" said the hotel man.  "How did you come to get outof that?"

The figure of Hurstwood was rather surprising in contrast to thefact.

"Well, by foolishness of my own.  It isn't anything to talk aboutnow.  You could find out if you wanted to.  I'm 'broke' now and,if you will believe me, I haven't eaten anything to-day."

The hotel man was slightly interested in this story.  He couldhardly tell what to do with such a figure, and yet Hurstwood'searnestness made him wish to do something.

"Call Olsen," he said, turning to the clerk.

In reply to a bell and a disappearing hall-boy, Olsen, the headporter, appeared.

"Olsen," said the manager, "is there anything downstairs youcould find for this man to do? I'd like to give him something."

"I don't know, sir," said Olsen.  "We have about all the help weneed.  I think I could find something, sir, though, if you like."

"Do.  Take him to the kitchen and tell Wilson to give himsomething to eat."

"All right, sir," said Olsen.

Hurstwood followed.  Out of the manager's sight, the headporter's manner changed.

"I don't know what the devil there is to do," he observed.

Hurstwood said nothing.  To him the big trunk hustler was asubject for private contempt.

"You're to give this man something to eat," he observed to thecook.

The latter looked Hurstwood over, and seeing something keen andintellectual in his eyes, said:

"Well, sit down over there."

Thus was Hurstwood installed in the Broadway Central, but not forlong.  He was in no shape or mood to do the scrub work thatexists about the foundation of every hotel.  Nothing betteroffering, he was set to aid the fireman, to work about thebasement, to do anything and everything that might offer.Porters, cooks, firemen, clerks--all were over him.  Moreover hisappearance did not please these individuals--his temper was toolonely--and they made it disagreeable for him.

With the stolidity and indifference of despair, however, heendured it all, sleeping in an attic at the roof of the house,eating what the cook gave him, accepting a few dollars a week,which he tried to save.  His constitution was in no shape toendure.

One day the following February he was sent on an errand to alarge coal company's office.  It had been snowing and thawing andthe streets were sloppy.  He soaked his shoes in his progress andcame back feeling dull and weary.  All the next day he feltunusually depressed and sat about as much as possible, to theirritation of those who admired energy in others.

In the afternoon some boxes were to be moved to make room for newculinary supplies.  He was ordered to handle a truck.Encountering a big box, he could not lift it.

"What's the matter there?" said the head porter.  "Can't youhandle it?"

He was straining to lift it, but now he quit.

"No," he said, weakly.

The man looked at him and saw that he was deathly pale.

"Not sick, are you?" he asked."I think I am," returned Hurstwood.

"Well, you'd better go sit down, then."

This he did, but soon grew rapidly worse.  It seemed all he coulddo to crawl to his room, where he remained for a day.

"That man Wheeler's sick," reported one of the lackeys to thenight clerk.

"What's the matter with him?"

"I don't know.  He's got a high fever."

The hotel physician looked at him.

"Better send him to Bellevue," he recommended.  "He's gotpneumonia."

Accordingly, he was carted away.

In three weeks the worst was over, but it was nearly the first ofMay before his strength permitted him to be turned out.  Then hewas discharged.

No more weakly looking object ever strolled out into the springsunshine than the once hale, lusty manager.  All his corpulencyhad fled.  His face was thin and pale, his hands white, his bodyflabby.  Clothes and all, he weighed but one hundred and thirty-five pounds.  Some old garments had been given him--a cheap browncoat and misfit pair of trousers.  Also some change and advice.He was told to apply to the charities.

Again he resorted to the Bowery lodging-house, brooding overwhere to look.  From this it was but a step to beggary.

"What can a man do?" he said.  "I can't starve."

His first application was in sunny Second Avenue.  A well-dressedman came leisurely strolling toward him out of Stuyvesant Park.Hurstwood nerved himself and sidled near.

"Would you mind giving me ten cents?" he said, directly.  "I'm ina position where I must ask some one."

The man scarcely looked at him, fished in his vest pocket andtook out a dime.

"There you are," he said.

"Much obliged," said Hurstwood, softly, but the other paid nomore attention to him.

Satisfied with his success and yet ashamed of his situation, hedecided that he would only ask for twenty-five cents more, sincethat would be sufficient.  He strolled about sizing up people,but it was long before just the right face and situation arrived.When he asked, he was refused.  Shocked by this result, he tookan hour to recover and then asked again.  This time a nickel wasgiven him.  By the most watchful effort he did get twenty centsmore, but it was painful.

The next day he resorted to the same effort, experiencing avariety of rebuffs and one or two generous receptions.  At lastit crossed his mind that there was a science of faces, and that aman could pick the liberal countenance if he tried.

It was no pleasure to him, however, this stopping of passers-by.He saw one man taken up for it and now troubled lest he should bearrested.  Nevertheless, he went on, vaguely anticipating thatindefinite something which is always better.

It was with a sense of satisfaction, then, that he saw announcedone morning the return of the Casino Company, "with Miss CarrieMadenda." He had thought of her often enough in days past.  Howsuccessful she was--how much money she must have! Even now,however, it took a severe run of ill luck to decide him to appealto her.  He was truly hungry before he said:

"I'll ask her.  She won't refuse me a few dollars."

Accordingly, he headed for the Casino one afternoon, passing itseveral times in an effort to locate the stage entrance.  Then hesat in Bryant Park, a block away, waiting.  "She can't refuse tohelp me a little," he kept saying to himself.

Beginning with half-past six, he hovered like a shadow about theThirty-ninth Street entrance, pretending always to be a hurryingpedestrian and yet fearful lest he should miss his object.  Hewas slightly nervous, too, now that the eventful hour hadarrived; but being weak and hungry, his ability to suffer wasmodified.  At last he saw that the actors were beginning toarrive, and his nervous tension increased, until it seemed as ifhe could not stand much more.

Once he thought he saw Carrie coming and moved forward, only tosee that he was mistaken.

"She can't be long, now," he said to himself, half fearing toencounter her and equally depressed at the thought that she mighthave gone in by another way.  His stomach was so empty that itached.

Individual after individual passed him, nearly all well dressed,almost all indifferent.  He saw coaches rolling by, gentlemenpassing with ladies--the evening's merriment was beginning inthis region of theatres and hotels.

Suddenly a coach rolled up and the driver jumped down to open thedoor.  Before Hurstwood could act, two ladies flounced across thebroad walk and disappeared in the stage door.  He thought he sawCarrie, but it was so unexpected, so elegant and far away, hecould hardly tell.  He waited a while longer, growing feverishwith want, and then seeing that the stage door no longer opened,and that a merry audience was arriving, he concluded it must havebeen Carrie and turned away.

"Lord," he said, hastening out of the street into which the morefortunate were pouring, "I've got to get something."

At that hour, when Broadway is wont to assume its mostinteresting aspect, a peculiar individual invariably took hisstand at the corner of Twenty-sixth Street and Broadway--a spotwhich is also intersected by Fifth Avenue.  This was the hourwhen the theatres were just beginning to receive their patrons.Fire signs announcing the night's amusements blazed on everyhand.  Cabs and carriages, their lamps gleaming like yellow eyes,pattered by.  Couples and parties of three and four freelymingled in the common crowd, which poured by in a thick stream,laughing and jesting.  On Fifth Avenue were loungers--a fewwealthy strollers, a gentleman in evening dress with his lady onhis arm, some club-men passing from one smoking-room to another.Across the way the great hotels showed a hundred gleamingwindows, their cafes and billiard-rooms filled with acomfortable, well-dressed, and pleasure-loving throng.  All aboutwas the night, pulsating with the thoughts of pleasure andexhilaration--the curious enthusiasm of a great city bent uponfinding joy in a thousand different ways.

This unique individual was no less than an ex-soldier turnedreligionist, who, having suffered the whips and privations of ourpeculiar social system, had concluded that his duty to the Godwhich he conceived lay in aiding his fellow-man.  The form of aidwhich he chose to administer was entirely original with himself.It consisted of securing a bed for all such homeless wayfarers asshould apply to him at this particular spot, though he hadscarcely the wherewithal to provide a comfortable habitation forhimself.  Taking his place amid this lightsome atmosphere, hewould stand, his stocky figure cloaked in a great cape overcoat,his head protected by a broad slouch hat, awaiting the applicantswho had in various ways learned the nature of his charity.  For awhile he would stand alone, gazing like any idler upon an ever-fascinating scene.  On the evening in question, a policemanpassing saluted him as "captain," in a friendly way.  An urchinwho had frequently seen him before, stopped to gaze.  All otherstook him for nothing out of the ordinary, save in the matter ofdress, and conceived of him as a stranger whistling and idlingfor his own amusement.

As the first half-hour waned, certain characters appeared.  Hereand there in the passing crowds one might see, now and then, aloiterer edging interestedly near.  A slouchy figure crossed theopposite corner and glanced furtively in his direction.  Anothercame down Fifth Avenue to the corner of Twenty-sixth Street, tooka general survey, and hobbled off again.  Two or three noticeableBowery types edged along the Fifth Avenue side of Madison Square,but did not venture over.  The soldier, in his cape overcoat,walked a short line of ten feet at his corner, to and fro,indifferently whistling.

As nine o'clock approached, some of the hubbub of the earlierhour passed.  The atmosphere of the hotels was not so youthful.The air, too, was colder.  On every hand curious figures weremoving--watchers and peepers, without an imaginary circle, whichthey seemed afraid to enter--a dozen in all.  Presently, with thearrival of a keener sense of cold, one figure came forward.  Itcrossed Broadway from out the shadow of Twenty-sixth Street, and,in a halting, circuitous way, arrived close to the waitingfigure.  There was something shamefaced or diffident about themovement, as if the intention were to conceal any idea ofstopping until the very last moment.  Then suddenly, close to thesoldier, came the halt.

The captain looked in recognition, but there was no especialgreeting.  The newcomer nodded slightly and murmured somethinglike one who waits for gifts.  The other simply motioned to-wardthe edge of the walk.

"Stand over there," he said.

By this the spell was broken.  Even while the soldier resumed hisshort, solemn walk, other figures shuffled forward.  They did notso much as greet the leader, but joined the one, sniffling andhitching and scraping their feet.

"Gold, ain't it?"

"I'm glad winter's over."

"Looks as though it might rain."

The motley company had increased to ten.  One or two knew eachother and conversed.  Others stood off a few feet, not wishing tobe in the crowd and yet not counted out.  They were peevish,crusty, silent, eying nothing in particular and moving theirfeet.

There would have been talking soon, but the soldier gave them nochance.  Counting sufficient to begin, he came forward.

"Beds, eh, all of you?"

There was a general shuffle and murmur of approval.

"Well, line up here.  I'll see what I can do.  I haven't a centmyself."

They fell into a sort of broken, ragged line.  One might see,now, some of the chief characteristics by contrast.  There was awooden leg in the line.  Hats were all drooping, a group thatwould ill become a second-hand Hester Street basement collection.Trousers were all warped and frayed at the bottom and coats wornand faded.  In the glare of the store lights, some of the faceslooked dry and chalky; others were red with blotches and puffedin the cheeks and under the eyes; one or two were rawboned andreminded one of railroad hands.  A few spectators came near,drawn by the seemingly conferring group, then more and more, andquickly there was a pushing, gaping crowd.  Some one in the linebegan to talk.

"Silence!" exclaimed the captain.  "Now, then, gentlemen, thesemen are without beds.  They have to have some place to sleep to-night.  They can't lie out in the streets.  I need twelve centsto put one of them to bed.  Who will give it to me?"

No reply.

"Well, we'll have to wait here, boys, until some one does.Twelve cents isn't so very much for one man."

"Here's fifteen," exclaimed a young man, peering forward withstrained eyes.  "It's all I can afford."

"All right.  Now I have fifteen.  Step out of the line," andseizing one by the shoulder, the captain marched him off a littleway and stood him up alone.

Coming back, he resumed his place and began again.

"I have three cents left.  These men must be put to bed somehow.There are"--counting--"one, two, three, four, five, six, seven,eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve men.  Nine cents more will putthe next man to bed; give him a good, comfortable bed for thenight.  I go right along and look after that myself.  Who willgive me nine cents?"

One of the watchers, this time a middle-aged man, handed him afive-cent piece.

"Now, I have eight cents.  Four more will give this man a bed.Come, gentlemen.  We are going very slow this evening.  You allhave good beds.  How about these?"

"Here you are," remarked a bystander, putting a coin into hishand.

"That," said the captain, looking at the coin, "pays for two bedsfor two men and gives me five on the next one.  Who will give meseven cents more?"

"I will," said a voice.

Coming down Sixth Avenue this evening, Hurstwood chanced to crosseast through Twenty-sixth Street toward Third Avenue.  He waswholly disconsolate in spirit, hungry to what he deemed an almostmortal extent, weary, and defeated.  How should he get at Carrienow? It would be eleven before the show was over.  If she came ina coach, she would go away in one.  He would need to interruptunder most trying circumstances.  Worst of all, he was hungry andweary, and at best a whole day must intervene, for he had notheart to try again to-night.  He had no food and no bed.

When he neared Broadway, he noticed the captain's gathering ofwanderers, but thinking it to be the result of a street preacheror some patent medicine fakir, was about to pass on.  However, incrossing the street toward Madison Square Park, he noticed theline of men whose beds were already secured, stretching out fromthe main body of the crowd.  In the glare of the neighbouringelectric light he recognised a type of his own kind--the figureswhom he saw about the streets and in the lodging-houses, driftingin mind and body like himself.  He wondered what it could be andturned back.

There was the captain curtly pleading as before.  He heard withastonishment and a sense of relief the oft-repeated words: "Thesemen must have a bed." Before him was the line of unfortunateswhose beds were yet to be had, and seeing a newcomer quietly edgeup and take a position at the end of the line, he decided to dolikewise.  What use to contend? He was weary to-night.  It was asimple way out of one difficulty, at least.  To-morrow, maybe, hewould do better.

Back of him, where some of those were whose beds were safe, arelaxed air was apparent.  The strain of uncertainty beingremoved, he heard them talking with moderate freedom and someleaning toward sociability.  Politics, religion, the state of thegovernment, some newspaper sensations, and the more notoriousfacts the world over, found mouthpieces and auditors there.Cracked and husky voices pronounced forcibly upon odd matters.Vague and rambling observations were made in reply.

There were squints, and leers, and some dull, ox-like stares fromthose who were too dull or too weary to converse.

Standing tells.  Hurstwood became more weary waiting.  He thoughthe should drop soon and shifted restlessly from one foot to theother.  At last his turn came.  The man ahead had been paid forand gone to the blessed line of success.  He was now first, andalready the captain was talking for him.

"Twelve cents, gentlemen--twelve cents puts this man to bed.  Hewouldn't stand here in the cold if he had any place to go."

Hurstwood swallowed something that rose to his throat.  Hungerand weakness had made a coward of him.

"Here you are," said a stranger, handing money to the captain.

Now the latter put a kindly hand on the ex-manager's shoulder."Line up over there," he said.

Once there, Hurstwood breathed easier.  He felt as if the worldwere not quite so bad with such a good man in it.  Others seemedto feel like himself about this.

"Captain's a great feller, ain't he?" said the man ahead--alittle, woebegone, helpless-looking sort of individual, wholooked as though he had ever been the sport and care of fortune.

"Yes," said Hurstwood, indifferently.

"Huh! there's a lot back there yet," said a man farther up,leaning out and looking back at the applicants for whom thecaptain was pleading.

"Yes.  Must be over a hundred to-night," said another.

"Look at the guy in the cab," observed a third.

A cab had stopped.  Some gentleman in evening dress reached out abill to the captain, who took it with simple thanks and turnedaway to his line.  There was a general craning of necks as thejewel in the white shirt front sparkled and the cab moved off.Even the crowd gaped in awe.

"That fixes up nine men for the night," said the captain,counting out as many of the line near him.  "Line up over there.Now, then, there are only seven.  I need twelve cents."

Money came slowly.  In the course of time the crowd thinned outto a meagre handful.  Fifth Avenue, save for an occasional cab orfoot passenger, was bare.  Broadway was thinly peopled withpedestrians.  Only now and then a stranger passing noticed thesmall group, handed out a coin, and went away, unheeding.

The captain remained stolid and determined.  He talked on, veryslowly, uttering the fewest words and with a certain assurance,as though he could not fail.

"Come; I can't stay out here all night.  These men are gettingtired and cold.  Some one give me four cents."

There came a time when he said nothing at all.  Money was handedhim, and for each twelve cents he singled out a man and put himin the other line.  Then he walked up and down as before, lookingat the ground.

The theatres let out.  Fire signs disappeared.  A clock struckeleven.  Another half-hour and he was down to the last two men.

"Come, now," he exclaimed to several curious observers; "eighteencents will fix us all up for the night.  Eighteen cents.  I havesix.  Somebody give me the money.  Remember, I have to go over toBrooklyn yet to-night.  Before that I have to take these men downand put them to bed.  Eighteen cents."

No one responded.  He walked to and fro, looking down for severalminutes, occasionally saying softly: "Eighteen cents." It seemedas if this paltry sum would delay the desired culmination longerthan all the rest had.  Hurstwood, buoyed up slightly by the longline of which he was a part, refrained with an effort fromgroaning, he was so weak.

At last a lady in opera cape and rustling skirts came down FifthAvenue, accompanied by her escort.  Hurstwood gazed wearily,reminded by her both of Carrie in her new world and of the timewhen he had escorted his own wife in like manner.

While he was gazing, she turned and, looking at the remarkablecompany, sent her escort over.  He came, holding a bill in hisfingers, all elegant and graceful.

"Here you are," he said.

"Thanks," said the captain, turning to the two remainingapplicants.  "Now we have some for to-morrow night," he added.

Therewith he lined up the last two and proceeded to the head,counting as he went.

"One hundred and thirty-seven," he announced.  "Now, boys, lineup.  Right dress there.  We won't be much longer about this.Steady, now."

He placed himself at the head and called out "Forward." Hurstwoodmoved with the line.  Across Fifth Avenue, through Madison Squareby the winding paths, east on Twenty-third Street, and down ThirdAvenue wound the long, serpentine company.  Midnight pedestriansand loiterers stopped and stared as the company passed.  Chattingpolicemen, at various corners, stared indifferently or nodded tothe leader, whom they had seen before.  On Third Avenue theymarched, a seemingly weary way, to Eighth Street, where there wasa lodginghouse, closed, apparently, for the night.  They wereexpected, however.

Outside in the gloom they stood, while the leader parleyedwithin.  Then doors swung open and they were invited in with a"Steady, now."

Some one was at the head showing rooms, so that there was nodelay for keys.  Toiling up the creaky stairs, Hurstwood lookedback and saw the captain, watching; the last one of the linebeing included in his broad solicitude.  Then he gathered hiscloak about him and strolled out into the night.

"I can't stand much of this," said Hurstwood, whose legs achedhim painfully, as he sat down upon the miserable bunk in thesmall, lightless chamber allotted to him.  "I've got to eat, orI'll die."

Chapter XLVI

STIRRING TROUBLED WATERS

Playing in New York one evening on this her return, Carrie wasputting the finishing touches to her toilet before leaving forthe night, when a commotion near the stage door caught her ear.It included a familiar voice.

"Never mind, now.  I want to see Miss Madenda."

"You'll have to send in your card."

"Oh, come off! Here."

A half-dollar was passed over, and now a knock came at herdressing-room door.Carrie opened it.

"Well, well!" said Drouet.  "I do swear! Why, how are you? I knewthat was you the moment I saw you."

Carrie fell back a pace, expecting a most embarrassingconversation.

"Aren't you going to shake hands with me? Well, you're a dandy!That's all right, shake hands."

Carrie put out her hand, smiling, if for nothing more than theman's exuberant good-nature.  Though older, he was but slightlychanged.  The same fine clothes, the same stocky body, the samerosy countenance.

"That fellow at the door there didn't want to let me in, until Ipaid him.  I knew it was you, all right.  Say, you've got a greatshow.  You do your part fine.  I knew you would.  I just happenedto be passing to night and thought I'd drop in for a few minutes.I saw your name on the programme, but I didn't remember it untilyou came on the stage.  Then it struck me all at once.  Say, youcould have knocked me down with a feather.  That's the same nameyou used out there in Chicago, isn't it?"

"Yes," answered Carrie, mildly, overwhelmed by the man'sassurance.

"I knew it was, the moment I saw you.  Well, how have you been,anyhow?"

"Oh, very well," said Carrie, lingering in her dressing-room.She was rather dazed by the assault.  "How have you been?"

"Me? Oh, fine.  I'm here now."

"Is that so?" said Carrie.

"Yes.  I've been here for six months.  I've got charge of abranch here."

"How nice!"

"Well, when did you go on the stage, anyhow?" inquired Drouet.

"About three years ago," said Carrie.

"You don't say so! Well, sir, this is the first I've heard of it.I knew you would, though.  I always said you could act--didn'tI?"

Carrie smiled.

"Yes, you did," she said.

"Well, you do look great," he said.  "I never saw anybody improveso.  You're taller, aren't you?"

"Me? Oh, a little, maybe."

He gazed at her dress, then at her hair, where a becoming hat wasset jauntily, then into her eyes, which she took all occasion toavert.  Evidently he expected to restore their old friendship atonce and without modification.

"Well," he said, seeing her gather up her purse, handkerchief,and the like, preparatory to departing, "I want you to come outto dinner with me; won't you? I've got a friend out here."

"Oh, I can't," said Carrie.  "Not to-night.  I have an earlyengagement to-morrow."

"Aw, let the engagement go.  Come on.  I can get rid of him.  Iwant to have a good talk with you."

"No, no," said Carrie; "I can't.  You mustn't ask me any more.  Idon't care for a late dinner."

"Well, come on and have a talk, then, anyhow."

"Not to-night," she said, shaking her head.  "We'll have a talksome other time."

As a result of this, she noticed a shade of thought pass over hisface, as if he were beginning to realise that things werechanged.  Good-nature dictated something better than this for onewho had always liked her.

"You come around to the hotel to-morrow," she said, as sort ofpenance for error.  "You can take dinner with me."

"All right," said Drouet, brightening.  "Where are you stopping?"

"At the Waldorf," she answered, mentioning the fashionablehostelry then but newly erected.

"What time?"

"Well, come at three," said Carrie, pleasantly.

The next day Drouet called, but it was with no especial delightthat Carrie remembered her appointment.  However, seeing him,handsome as ever, after his kind, and most genially disposed, herdoubts as to whether the dinner would be disagreeable were sweptaway.  He talked as volubly as ever.

"They put on a lot of lugs here, don't they?" was his firstremark.

"Yes; they do," said Carrie.

Genial egotist that he was, he went at once into a detailedaccount of his own career.

"I'm going to have a business of my own pretty soon," he observedin one place.  "I can get backing for two hundred thousanddollars."

Carrie listened most good-naturedly.

"Say," he said, suddenly; "where is Hurstwood now?"

Carrie flushed a little.

"He's here in New York, I guess," she said.  "I haven't seen himfor some time."

Drouet mused for a moment.  He had not been sure until now thatthe ex-manager was not an influential figure in the background.He imagined not; but this assurance relieved him.  It must bethat Carrie had got rid of him--as well she ought, he thought."A man always makes a mistake when he does anything like that,"he observed.

"Like what?" said Carrie, unwitting of what was coming.

"Oh, you know," and Drouet waved her intelligence, as it were,with his hand.

"No, I don't," she answered.  "What do you mean?"

"Why that affair in Chicago--the time he left."

"I don't know what you are talking about," said Carrie.  Could itbe he would refer so rudely to Hurstwood's flight with her?

"Oho!" said Drouet, incredulously.  "You knew he took tenthousand dollars with him when he left, didn't you?"

"What!" said Carrie.  "You don't mean to say he stole money, doyou?"

"Why," said Drouet, puzzled at her tone, "you knew that, didn'tyou?"

"Why, no," said Carrie.  "Of course I didn't."

"Well, that's funny," said Drouet.  "He did, you know.  It was inall the papers."

"How much did you say he took?" said Carrie.

"Ten thousand dollars.  I heard he sent most of it backafterwards, though."

Carrie looked vacantly at the richly carpeted floor.  A new lightwas shining upon all the years since her enforced flight.  Sheremembered now a hundred things that indicated as much.  She alsoimagined that he took it on her account.  Instead of hatredspringing up there was a kind of sorrow generated.  Poor fellow!What a thing to have had hanging over his head all the time.

At dinner Drouet, warmed up by eating and drinking and softenedin mood, fancied he was winning Carrie to her old-time good-natured regard for him.  He began to imagine it would not be sodifficult to enter into her life again, high as she was.  Ah,what a prize! he thought.  How beautiful, how elegant, howfamous! In her theatrical and Waldorf setting, Carrie was to himthe all desirable.

"Do you remember how nervous you were that night at the Avery?"he asked.

Carrie smiled to think of it.

"I never saw anybody do better than you did then, Cad," he addedruefully, as he leaned an elbow on the table; "I thought you andI were going to get along fine those days."

"You mustn't talk that way," said Carrie, bringing in the leasttouch of coldness.

"Won't you let me tell you----"

"No," she answered, rising.  "Besides, it's time I was gettingready for the theatre.  I'll have to leave you.  Come, now.""Oh, stay a minute," pleaded Drouet.  "You've got plenty oftime."

"No," said Carrie, gently.

Reluctantly Drouet gave up the bright table and followed.  He sawher to the elevator and, standing there, said:

"When do I see you again?"

"Oh, some time, possibly," said Carrie.  "I'll be here allsummer.  Good-night!"

The elevator door was open.

"Good-night!" said Drouet, as she rustled in.

Then he strolled sadly down the hall, all his old longingrevived, because she was now so far off.  The merry frou-frou ofthe place spoke all of her.  He thought himself hardly dealtwith.  Carrie, however, had other thoughts.

That night it was that she passed Hurstwood, waiting at theCasino, without observing him.

The next night, walking to the theatre, she encountered him faceto face.  He was waiting, more gaunt than ever, determined to seeher, if he had to send in word.  At first she did not recognisethe shabby, baggy figure.  He frightened her, edging so close, aseemingly hungry stranger.

"Carrie," he half whispered, "can I have a few words with you?"

She turned and recognised him on the instant.  If there ever hadlurked any feeling in her heart against him, it deserted her now.Still, she remembered what Drouet said about his having stolenthe money.

"Why, George," she said; "what's the matter with you?"

"I've been sick," he answered.  "I've just got out of thehospital.  For God's sake, let me have a little money, will you?"

"Of course," said Carrie, her lip trembling in a strong effort tomaintain her composure.  "But what's the matter with you,anyhow?"

She was opening her purse, and now pulled out all the bills init--a five and two twos.

"I've been sick, I told you," he said, peevishly, almostresenting her excessive pity.  It came hard to him to receive itfrom such a source.

"Here," she said.  "It's all I have with me."

"All right," he answered, softly.  "I'll give it back to you someday."

Carrie looked at him, while pedestrians stared at her.  She feltthe strain of publicity.  So did Hurstwood.

"Why don't you tell me what's the matter with you?" she asked,hardly knowing what to do.  "Where are you living?"

"Oh, I've got a room down in the Bowery," he answered.  "There'sno use trying to tell you here.  I'm all right now."

He seemed in a way to resent her kindly inquiries--so much betterhad fate dealt with her.

"Better go on in," he said.  "I'm much obliged, but I won'tbother you any more."

She tried to answer, but he turned away and shuffled off towardthe east.

For days this apparition was a drag on her soul before it beganto wear partially away.  Drouet called again, but now he was noteven seen by her.  His attentions seemed out of place.

"I'm out," was her reply to the boy.

So peculiar, indeed, was her lonely, self-withdrawing temper,that she was becoming an interesting figure in the public eye--she was so quiet and reserved.

Not long after the management decided to transfer the show toLondon.  A second summer season did not seem to promise wellhere.

"How would you like to try subduing London?" asked her manager,one afternoon.

"It might be just the other way," said Carrie.

"I think we'll go in June," he answered.

In the hurry of departure, Hurstwood was forgotten.  Both he andDrouet were left to discover that she was gone.  The lattercalled once, and exclaimed at the news.  Then he stood in thelobby, chewing the ends of his moustache.  At last he reached aconclusion--the old days had gone for good.

"She isn't so much," he said; but in his heart of hearts he didnot believe this.

Hurstwood shifted by curious means through a long summer andfall.  A small job as janitor of a dance hall helped him for amonth.  Begging, sometimes going hungry, sometimes sleeping inthe park, carried him over more days.  Resorting to thosepeculiar charities, several of which, in the press of hungrysearch, he accidentally stumbled upon, did the rest.  Toward thedead of winter, Carrie came back, appearing on Broadway in a newplay; but he was not aware of it.  For weeks he wandered aboutthe city, begging, while the fire sign, announcing herengagement, blazed nightly upon the crowded street of amusements.Drouet saw it, but did not venture in.

About this time Ames returned to New York.  He had made a littlesuccess in the West, and now opened a laboratory in WoosterStreet.  Of course, he encountered Carrie through Mrs. Vance; butthere was nothing responsive between them.  He thought she wasstill united to Hurstwood, until otherwise informed.  Not knowingthe facts then, he did not profess to understand, and refrainedfrom comment.

With Mrs. Vance, he saw the new play, and expressed himselfaccordingly.

"She ought not to be in comedy," he said.  "I think she could dobetter than that."

One afternoon they met at the Vances' accidentally, and began avery friendly conversation.  She could hardly tell why the one-time keen interest in him was no longer with her.Unquestionably, it was because at that time he had representedsomething which she did not have; but this she did notunderstand.  Success had given her the momentary feeling that shewas now blessed with much of which he would approve.  As a matterof fact, her little newspaper fame was nothing at all to him.  Hethought she could have done better, by far.

"You didn't go into comedy-drama, after all?" he said,remembering her interest in that form of art.

"No," she answered; "I haven't, so far."

He looked at her in such a peculiar way that she realised she hadfailed.  It moved her to add: "I want to, though."

"I should think you would," he said.  "You have the sort ofdisposition that would do well in comedy-drama."

It surprised her that he should speak of disposition.  Was she,then, so clearly in his mind?

"Why?" she asked.

"Well," he said, "I should judge you were rather sympathetic inyour nature."

Carrie smiled and coloured slightly.  He was so innocently frankwith her that she drew nearer in friendship.  The old call of theideal was sounding.

"I don't know," she answered, pleased, nevertheless, beyond allconcealment.

"I saw your play," he remarked.  "It's very good."

"I'm glad you liked it."

"Very good, indeed," he said, "for a comedy."

This is all that was said at the time, owing to an interruption,but later they met again.  He was sitting in a corner afterdinner, staring at the floor, when Carrie came up with another ofthe guests.  Hard work had given his face the look of one who isweary.  It was not for Carrie to know the thing in it whichappealed to her.

"All alone?" she said.

"I was listening to the music."

"I'll be back in a moment," said her companion, who saw nothingin the inventor.

Now he looked up in her face, for she was standing a moment,while he sat.

"Isn't that a pathetic strain?" he inquired, listening.

"Oh, very," she returned, also catching it, now that herattention was called.

"Sit down," he added, offering her the chair beside him.

They listened a few moments in silence, touched by the samefeeling, only hers reached her through the heart.  Music stillcharmed her as in the old days.

"I don't know what it is about music," she started to say, movedby the inexplicable longings which surged within her; "but italways makes me feel as if I wanted something--I----"

"Yes," he replied; "I know how you feel."

Suddenly he turned to considering the peculiarity of herdisposition, expressing her feelings so frankly.

"You ought not to be melancholy," he said.

He thought a while, and then went off into a seemingly alienobservation which, however, accorded with their feelings.

"The world is full of desirable situations, but, unfortunately,we can occupy but one at a time.  It doesn't do us any good towring our hands over the far-off things."

The music ceased and he arose, taking a standing position beforeher, as if to rest himself.

"Why don't you get into some good, strong comedy-drama?" he said.He was looking directly at her now, studying her face.  Herlarge, sympathetic eyes and pain-touched mouth appealed to him asproofs of his judgment.

"Perhaps I shall," she returned.

"That's your field," he added.

"Do you think so?"

"Yes," he said; "I do.  I don't suppose you're aware of it, butthere is something about your eyes and mouth which fits you forthat sort of work."

Carrie thrilled to be taken so seriously.  For the moment,loneliness deserted her.  Here was praise which was keen andanalytical.

"It's in your eyes and mouth," he went on abstractedly.  "Iremember thinking, the first time I saw you, that there wassomething peculiar about your mouth.  I thought you were about tocry."

"How odd," said Carrie, warm with delight.  This was what herheart craved.

"Then I noticed that that was your natural look, and to-night Isaw it again.  There's a shadow about your eyes, too, which givesyour face much this same character.  It's in the depth of them, Ithink."

Carrie looked straight into his face, wholly aroused.

"You probably are not aware of it," he added.

She looked away, pleased that he should speak thus, longing to beequal to this feeling written upon her countenance.  It unlockedthe door to a new desire.She had cause to ponder over this until they met again--severalweeks or more.  It showed her she was drifting away from the oldideal which had filled her in the dressing-rooms of the Averystage and thereafter, for a long time.  Why had she lost it?

"I know why you should be a success," he said, another time, "ifyou had a more dramatic part.  I've studied it out----"

"What is it?" said Carrie.

"Well," he said, as one pleased with a puzzle, "the expression inyour face is one that comes out in different things.  You get thesame thing in a pathetic song, or any picture which moves youdeeply.  It's a thing the world likes to see, because it's anatural expression of its longing."

Carrie gazed without exactly getting the import of what he meant.

"The world is always struggling to express itself," he went on."Most people are not capable of voicing their feelings.  Theydepend upon others.  That is what genius is for.  One manexpresses their desires for them in music; another one in poetry;another one in a play.  Sometimes nature does it in a face--itmakes the face representative of all desire.  That's what hashappened in your case."

He looked at her with so much of the import of the thing in hiseyes that she caught it.  At least, she got the idea that herlook was something which represented the world's longing.  Shetook it to heart as a creditable thing, until he added:

"That puts a burden of duty on you.  It so happens that you havethis thing.  It is no credit to you--that is, I mean, you mightnot have had it.  You paid nothing to get it.  But now that youhave it, you must do something with it."

"What?" asked Carrie.

"I should say, turn to the dramatic field.  You have so muchsympathy and such a melodious voice.  Make them valuable toothers.  It will make your powers endure."

Carrie did not understand this last.  All the rest showed herthat her comedy success was little or nothing.

"What do you mean?" she asked.

"Why, just this.  You have this quality in your eyes and mouthand in your nature.  You can lose it, you know.  If you turn awayfrom it and live to satisfy yourself alone, it will go fastenough.  The look will leave your eyes.  Your mouth will change.Your power to act will disappear.  You may think they won't, butthey will.  Nature takes care of that."

He was so interested in forwarding all good causes that hesometimes became enthusiastic, giving vent to these preachments.Something in Carrie appealed to him.  He wanted to stir her up.

"I know," she said, absently, feeling slightly guilty of neglect.

"If I were you," he said, "I'd change."

The effect of this was like roiling helpless waters.  Carrietroubled over it in her rocking-chair for days.

"I don't believe I'll stay in comedy so very much longer," sheeventually remarked to Lola.

"Oh, why not?" said the latter.

"I think," she said, "I can do better in a serious play."

"What put that idea in your head?"

"Oh, nothing," she answered; "I've always thought so."

Still, she did nothing--grieving.  It was a long way to thisbetter thing--or seemed so--and comfort was about her; hence theinactivity and longing.

Chapter XLVII

THE WAY OF THE BEATEN--A HARP IN THE WIND

In the city, at that time, there were a number of charitiessimilar in nature to that of the captain's, which Hurstwood nowpatronised in a like unfortunate way.  One was a convent mission-house of the Sisters of Mercy in Fifteenth Street--a row of redbrick family dwellings, before the door of which hung a plainwooden contribution box, on which was painted the statement thatevery noon a meal was given free to all those who might apply andask for aid.  This simple announcement was modest in the extreme,covering, as it did, a charity so broad.  Institutions andcharities are so large and so numerous in New York that suchthings as this are not often noticed by the more comfortablysituated.  But to one whose mind is upon the matter, they growexceedingly under inspection.  Unless one were looking up thismatter in particular, he could have stood at Sixth Avenue andFifteenth Street for days around the noon hour and never havenoticed that out of the vast crowd that surged along that busythoroughfare there turned out, every few seconds, some weather-beaten, heavy-footed specimen of humanity, gaunt in countenanceand dilapidated in the matter of clothes.  The fact is none theless true, however, and the colder the day the more apparent itbecame.  Space and a lack of culinary room in the mission-house,compelled an arrangement which permitted of only twenty-five orthirty eating at one time, so that a line had to be formedoutside and an orderly entrance effected.  This caused a dailyspectacle which, however, had become so common by repetitionduring a number of years that now nothing was thought of it.  Themen waited patiently, like cattle, in the coldest weather--waitedfor several hours before they could be admitted.  No questionswere asked and no service rendered.  They ate and went awayagain, some of them returning regularly day after day the winterthrough.

A big, motherly looking woman invariably stood guard at the doorduring the entire operation and counted the admissible number.The men moved up in solemn order.  There was no haste and noeagerness displayed.  It was almost a dumb procession.  In thebitterest weather this line was to be found here.  Under an icywind there was a prodigious slapping of hands and a dancing offeet.  Fingers and the features of the face looked as if severelynipped by the cold.  A study of these men in broad light provedthem to be nearly all of a type.  They belonged to the class thatsit on the park benches during the endurable days and sleep uponthem during the summer nights.  They frequent the Bowery andthose down-at-the-heels East Side streets where poor clothes andshrunken features are not singled out as curious.  They are themen who are in the lodginghouse sitting-rooms during bleak andbitter weather and who swarm about the cheaper shelters whichonly open at six in a number of the lower East Side streets.Miserable food, ill-timed and greedily eaten, had played havocwith bone and muscle.  They were all pale, flabby, sunken-eyed,hollow-chested, with eyes that glinted and shone and lips thatwere a sickly red by contrast.  Their hair was but half attendedto, their ears anaemic in hue, and their shoes broken in leatherand run down at heel and toe.  They were of the class whichsimply floats and drifts, every wave of people washing up one, asbreakers do driftwood upon a stormy shore.

For nearly a quarter of a century, in another section of thecity, Fleischmann, the baker, had given a loaf of bread to anyone who would come for it to the side door of his restaurant atthe corner of Broadway and Tenth Street, at midnight.  Everynight during twenty years about three hundred men had formed inline and at the appointed time marched past the doorway, pickedtheir loaf from a great box placed just outside, and vanishedagain into the night.  From the beginning to the present timethere had been little change in the character or number of thesemen.  There were two or three figures that had grown familiar tothose who had seen this little procession pass year after year.Two of them had missed scarcely a night in fifteen years.  Therewere about forty, more or less, regular callers.  The remainderof the line was formed of strangers.  In times of panic andunusual hardships there were seldom more than three hundred.  Intimes of prosperity, when little is heard of the unemployed,there were seldom less.  The same number, winter and summer, instorm or calm, in good times and bad, held this melancholymidnight rendezvous at Fleischmann's bread box.

At both of these two charities, during the severe winter whichwas now on, Hurstwood was a frequent visitor.  On one occasion itwas peculiarly cold, and finding no comfort in begging about thestreets, he waited until noon before seeking this free offeringto the poor.  Already, at eleven o'clock of this morning, severalsuch as he had shambled forward out of Sixth Avenue, their thinclothes flapping and fluttering in the wind.  They leaned againstthe iron railing which protects the walls of the Ninth RegimentArmory, which fronts upon that section of Fifteenth Street,having come early in order to be first in.  Having an hour towait, they at first lingered at a respectful distance; but otherscoming up, they moved closer in order to protect their right ofprecedence.  To this collection Hurstwood came up from the westout of Seventh Avenue and stopped close to the door, nearer thanall the others.  Those who had been waiting before him, butfarther away, now drew near, and by a certain stolidity ofdemeanour, no words being spoken, indicated that they were first.

Seeing the opposition to his action, he looked sullenly along theline, then moved out, taking his place at the foot.  When orderhad been restored, the animal feeling of opposition relaxed.

"Must be pretty near noon," ventured one.

"It is," said another.  "I've been waiting nearly an hour."

"Gee, but it's cold!"

They peered eagerly at the door, where all must enter.  A groceryman drove up and carried in several baskets of eatables.  Thisstarted some words upon grocery men and the cost of food ingeneral.

"I see meat's gone up," said one.

"If there wuz war, it would help this country a lot."

The line was growing rapidly.  Already there were fifty or more,and those at the head, by their demeanour, evidentlycongratulated themselves upon not having so long to wait as thoseat the foot.  There was much jerking of heads, and looking downthe line.

"It don't matter how near you get to the front, so long as you'rein the first twenty-five," commented one of the first twenty-five.  "You all go in together."

"Humph!" ejaculated Hurstwood, who had been so sturdilydisplaced.

"This here Single Tax is the thing," said another.  "There ain'tgoing to be no order till it comes."

For the most part there was silence; gaunt men shuffling,glancing, and beating their arms.

At last the door opened and the motherly-looking sister appeared.She only looked an order.  Slowly the line moved up and, one byone, passed in, until twenty-five were counted.  Then sheinterposed a stout arm, and the line halted, with six men on thesteps.  Of these the ex-manager was one.  Waiting thus, sometalked, some ejaculated concerning the misery of it; somebrooded, as did Hurstwood.  At last he was admitted, and, havingeaten, came away, almost angered because of his pains in gettingit.

At eleven o'clock of another evening, perhaps two weeks later, hewas at the midnight offering of a loaf--waiting patiently.  Ithad been an unfortunate day with him, but now he took his fatewith a touch of philosophy.  If he could secure no supper, or washungry late in the evening, here was a place he could come.  Afew minutes before twelve, a great box of bread was pushed out,and exactly on the hour a portly, round-faced German tookposition by it, calling "Ready." The whole line at once movedforward each taking his loaf in turn and going his separate way.On this occasion, the ex-manager ate his as he went plodding thedark streets in silence to his bed.

By January he had about concluded that the game was up with him.Life had always seemed a precious thing, but now constant wantand weakened vitality had made the charms of earth rather dulland inconspicuous.  Several times, when fortune pressed mostharshly, he thought he would end his troubles; but with a changeof weather, or the arrival of a quarter or a dime, his mood wouldchange, and he would wait.  Each day he would find some old paperlying about and look into it, to see if there was any trace ofCarrie, but all summer and fall he had looked in vain.  Then henoticed that his eyes were beginning to hurt him, and thisailment rapidly increased until, in the dark chambers of thelodgings he frequented, he did not attempt to read.  Bad andirregular eating was weakening every function of his body.  Theone recourse left him was to doze when a place offered and hecould get the money to occupy it.

He was beginning to find, in his wretched clothing and meagrestate of body, that people took him for a chronic type of bum andbeggar.  Police hustled him along, restaurant and lodginghousekeepers turned him out promptly the moment he had his due;pedestrians waved him off.  He found it more and more difficultto get anything from anybody.

At last he admitted to himself that the game was up.  It wasafter a long series of appeals to pedestrians, in which he hadbeen refused and refused--every one hastening from contact.

"Give me a little something, will you, mister?" he said to thelast one.  "For God's sake, do; I'm starving."

"Aw, get out," said the man, who happened to be a common typehimself.  "You're no good.  I'll give you nawthin'."

Hurstwood put his hands, red from cold, down in his pockets.Tears came into his eyes.

"That's right," he said; "I'm no good now.  I was all right.  Ihad money.  I'm going to quit this," and, with death in hisheart, he started down toward the Bowery.  People had turned onthe gas before and died; why shouldn't he? He remembered alodginghouse where there were little, close rooms, with gas-jetsin them, almost pre-arranged, he thought, for what he wanted todo, which rented for fifteen cents.  Then he remembered that hehad no fifteen cents.

On the way he met a comfortable-looking gentleman, coming, clean-shaven, out of a fine barber shop.

"Would you mind giving me a little something?" he asked this manboldly.

The gentleman looked him over and fished for a dime.  Nothing butquarters were in his pocket.

"Here," he said, handing him one, to be rid of him.  "Be off,now."

Hurstwood moved on, wondering.  The sight of the large, brightcoin pleased him a little.  He remembered that he was hungry andthat he could get a bed for ten cents.  With this, the idea ofdeath passed, for the time being, out of his mind.  It was onlywhen he could get nothing but insults that death seemed worthwhile.

One day, in the middle of the winter, the sharpest spell of theseason set in.  It broke grey and cold in the first day, and onthe second snowed.  Poor luck pursuing him, he had secured butten cents by nightfall, and this he had spent for food.  Atevening he found himself at the Boulevard and Sixty-seventhStreet, where he finally turned his face Bowery-ward.  Especiallyfatigued because of the wandering propensity which had seized himin the morning, he now half dragged his wet feet, shuffling thesoles upon the sidewalk.  An old, thin coat was turned up abouthis red ears--his cracked derby hat was pulled down until itturned them outward.  His hands were in his pockets.

"I'll just go down Broadway," he said to himself.

When he reached Forty-second Street, the fire signs were alreadyblazing brightly.  Crowds were hastening to dine.  Through brightwindows, at every corner, might be seen gay companies inluxuriant restaurants.  There were coaches and crowded cablecars.

In his weary and hungry state, he should never have come here.The contrast was too sharp.  Even he was recalled keenly tobetter things."What's the use?" he thought.  "It's all up with me.  I'll quitthis."

People turned to look after him, so uncouth was his shamblingfigure.  Several officers followed him with their eyes, to seethat he did not beg of anybody.

Once he paused in an aimless, incoherent sort of way and lookedthrough the windows of an imposing restaurant, before whichblazed a fire sign, and through the large, plate windows of whichcould be seen the red and gold decorations, the palms, the whitenapery, and shining glassware, and, above all, the comfortablecrowd.  Weak as his mind had become, his hunger was sharp enoughto show the importance of this.  He stopped stock still, hisfrayed trousers soaking in the slush, and peered foolishly in.

"Eat," he mumbled.  "That's right, eat.  Nobody else wants any."

Then his voice dropped even lower, and his mind half lost thefancy it had.

"It's mighty cold," he said.  "Awful cold."

At Broadway and Thirty-ninth Street was blazing, in incandescentfire, Carrie's name.  "Carrie Madenda," it read, "and the CasinoCompany." All the wet, snowy sidewalk was bright with thisradiated fire.  It was so bright that it attracted Hurstwood'sgaze.  He looked up, and then at a large, gilt-framedposterboard, on which was a fine lithograph of Carrie, lifesize.

Hurstwood gazed at it a moment, snuffling and hunching oneshoulder, as if something were scratching him.  He was so rundown, however, that his mind was not exactly clear.

He approached that entrance and went in.

"Well?" said the attendant, staring at him.  Seeing him pause, hewent over and shoved him.  "Get out of here," he said.

"I want to see Miss Madenda," he said.

"You do, eh?" the other said, almost tickled at the spectacle."Get out of here," and he shoved him again.  Hurstwood had nostrength to resist.

"I want to see Miss Madenda," he tried to explain, even as he wasbeing hustled away.  "I'm all right.  I----"

The man gave him a last push and closed the door.  As he did so,Hurstwood slipped and fell in the snow.  It hurt him, and somevague sense of shame returned.  He began to cry and swearfoolishly.

"God damned dog!" he said.  "Damned old cur," wiping the slushfrom his worthless coat.  "I--I hired such people as you once."

Now a fierce feeling against Carrie welled up--just one fierce,angry thought before the whole thing slipped out of his mind.

"She owes me something to eat," he said.  "She owes it to me."

Hopelessly he turned back into Broadway again and slopped onwardand away, begging, crying, losing track of his thoughts, oneafter another, as a mind decayed and disjointed is wont to do.

It was truly a wintry evening, a few days later, when his onedistinct mental decision was reached.  Already, at four o'clock,the sombre hue of night was thickening the air.  A heavy snow wasfalling--a fine picking, whipping snow, borne forward by a swiftwind in long, thin lines.  The streets were bedded with it--sixinches of cold, soft carpet, churned to a dirty brown by thecrush of teams and the feet of men.  Along Broadway men pickedtheir way in ulsters and umbrellas.  Along the Bowery, menslouched through it with collars and hats pulled over their ears.In the former thoroughfare businessmen and travellers were makingfor comfortable hotels.  In the latter, crowds on cold errandsshifted past dingy stores, in the deep recesses of which lightswere already gleaming.  There were early lights in the cablecars, whose usual clatter was reduced by the mantle about thewheels.  The whole city was muffled by this fast-thickeningmantle.

In her comfortable chambers at the Waldorf, Carrie was reading atthis time "Pere Goriot," which Ames had recommended to her.  Itwas so strong, and Ames's mere recommendation had so aroused herinterest, that she caught nearly the full sympatheticsignificance of it.  For the first time, it was being borne inupon her how silly and worthless had been her earlier reading, asa whole.  Becoming wearied, however, she yawned and came to thewindow, looking out upon the old winding procession of carriagesrolling up Fifth Avenue.

"Isn't it bad?" she observed to Lola.

"Terrible!" said that little lady, joining her.  "I hope it snowsenough to go sleigh riding."

"Oh, dear," said Carrie, with whom the sufferings of FatherGoriot were still keen.  "That's all you think of.  Aren't yousorry for the people who haven't anything to-night?"

"Of course I am," said Lola; "but what can I do? I haven'tanything."

Carrie smiled.

"You wouldn't care, if you had," she returned.

"I would, too," said Lola.  "But people never gave me anythingwhen I was hard up."

"Isn't it just awful?" said Carrie, studying the winter's storm.

"Look at that man over there," laughed Lola, who had caught sightof some one falling down.  "How sheepish men look when they fall,don't they?"

"We'll have to take a coach to-night," answered Carrie absently.

In the lobby of the Imperial, Mr. Charles Drouet was justarriving, shaking the snow from a very handsome ulster.  Badweather had driven him home early and stirred his desire forthose pleasures which shut out the snow and gloom of life.  Agood dinner, the company of a young woman, and an evening at thetheatre were the chief things for him.

"Why, hello, Harry!" he said, addressing a lounger in one of thecomfortable lobby chairs.  "How are you?"

"Oh, about six and six," said the other."Rotten weather, isn't it?"

"Well, I should say," said the other.  "I've been just sittinghere thinking where I'd go to-night."

"Come along with me," said Drouet.  "I can introduce you tosomething dead swell."

"Who is it?" said the other.

"Oh, a couple of girls over here in Fortieth Street.  We couldhave a dandy time.  I was just looking for you."

"Supposing you get 'em and take 'em out to dinner?"

"Sure," said Drouet.  "Wait'll I go upstairs and change myclothes."

"Well, I'll be in the barber shop," said the other.  "I want toget a shave."

"All right," said Drouet, creaking off in his good shoes towardthe elevator.  The old butterfly was as light on the wing asever.

On an incoming vestibuled Pullman, speeding at forty miles anhour through the snow of the evening, were three others, allrelated.

"First call for dinner in the dining-car," a Pullman servitor wasannouncing, as he hastened through the aisle in snow-white apronand jacket.

"I don't believe I want to play any more," said the youngest, ablack-haired beauty, turned supercilious by fortune, as shepushed a euchre hand away from her.

"Shall we go into dinner?" inquired her husband, who was all thatfine raiment can make.

"Oh, not yet," she answered.  "I don't want to play any more,though."

"Jessica," said her mother, who was also a study in what goodclothing can do for age, "push that pin down in your tie--it'scoming up."

Jessica obeyed, incidentally touching at her lovely hair andlooking at a little jewel-faced watch.  Her husband studied her,for beauty, even cold, is fascinating from one point of view.

"Well, we won't have much more of this weather," he said.  "Itonly takes two weeks to get to Rome."

Mrs. Hurstwood nestled comfortably in her corner and smiled.  Itwas so nice to be the mother-in-law of a rich young man--onewhose financial state had borne her personal inspection.

"Do you suppose the boat will sail promptly?" asked Jessica, "ifit keeps up like this?"

"Oh, yes," answered her husband.  "This won't make anydifference."

Passing down the aisle came a very fair-haired banker's son, alsoof Chicago, who had long eyed this supercilious beauty.  Even nowhe did not hesitate to glance at her, and she was conscious ofit.  With a specially conjured show of indifference, she turnedher pretty face wholly away.  It was not wifely modesty at all.By so much was her pride satisfied.

At this moment Hurstwood stood before a dirty four story buildingin a side street quite near the Bowery, whose one-time coat ofbuff had been changed by soot and rain.  He mingled with a crowdof men--a crowd which had been, and was still, gathering bydegrees.

It began with the approach of two or three, who hung about theclosed wooden doors and beat their feet to keep them warm.  Theyhad on faded derby hats with dents in them.  Their misfit coatswere heavy with melted snow and turned up at the collars.  Theirtrousers were mere bags, frayed at the bottom and wobbling overbig, soppy shoes, torn at the sides and worn almost to shreds.They made no effort to go in, but shifted ruefully about, diggingtheir hands deep in their pockets and leering at the crowd andthe increasing lamps.  With the minutes, increased the number.There were old men with grizzled beards and sunken eyes, men whowere comparatively young but shrunken by diseases, men who weremiddle-aged.  None were fat.  There was a face in the thick ofthe collection which was as white as drained veal.  There wasanother red as brick.  Some came with thin, rounded shoulders,others with wooden legs, still others with frames so lean thatclothes only flapped about them.  There were great ears, swollennoses, thick lips, and, above all, red, blood-shot eyes.  Not anormal, healthy face in the whole mass; not a straight figure;not a straightforward, steady glance.

In the drive of the wind and sleet they pushed in on one another.There were wrists, unprotected by coat or pocket, which were redwith cold.  There were ears, half covered by every conceivablesemblance of a hat, which still looked stiff and bitten.  In thesnow they shifted, now one foot, now another, almost rocking inunison.

With the growth of the crowd about the door came a murmur.  Itwas not conversation, but a running comment directed at any onein general.  It contained oaths and slang phrases.

"By damn, I wish they'd hurry up."

"Look at the copper watchin'."

"Maybe it ain't winter, nuther!"

"I wisht I was in Sing Sing."

Now a sharper lash of wind cut down and they huddled closer.  Itwas an edging, shifting, pushing throng.  There was no anger, nopleading, no threatening words.  It was all sullen endurance,unlightened by either wit or good fellowship.

A carriage went jingling by with some reclining figure in it.One of the men nearest the door saw it.

"Look at the bloke ridin'."

"He ain't so cold."

"Eh, eh, eh!" yelled another, the carriage having long sincepassed out of hearing.

Little by little the night crept on.  Along the walk a crowdturned out on its way home.  Men and shop-girls went by withquick steps.  The cross-town cars began to be crowded.  The gaslamps were blazing, and every window bloomed ruddy with a steadyflame.  Still the crowd hung about the door, unwavering.

"Ain't they ever goin' to open up?" queried a hoarse voice,suggestively.

This seemed to renew the general interest in the closed door, andmany gazed in that direction.  They looked at it as dumb bruteslook, as dogs paw and whine and study the knob.  They shifted andblinked and muttered, now a curse, now a comment.  Still theywaited and still the snow whirled and cut them with bitingflakes.  On the old hats and peaked shoulders it was piling.  Itgathered in little heaps and curves and no one brushed it off.In the centre of the crowd the warmth and steam melted it, andwater trickled off hat rims and down noses, which the ownerscould not reach to scratch.  On the outer rim the piles remainedunmelted.  Hurstwood, who could not get in the centre, stood withhead lowered to the weather and bent his form.

A light appeared through the transom overhead.  It sent a thrillof possibility through the watchers.  There was a murmur ofrecognition.  At last the bars grated inside and the crowdpricked up its ears.  Footsteps shuffled within and it murmuredagain.  Some one called: "Slow up there, now," and then the dooropened.  It was push and jam for a minute, with grim, beastsilence to prove its quality, and then it melted inward, likelogs floating, and disappeared.  There were wet hats and wetshoulders, a cold, shrunken, disgruntled mass, pouring in betweenbleak walls.  It was just six o'clock and there was supper inevery hurrying pedestrian's face.  And yet no supper was providedhere--nothing but beds.

Hurstwood laid down his fifteen cents and crept off with wearysteps to his allotted room.  It was a dingy affair--wooden,dusty, hard.  A small gas-jet furnished sufficient light for sorueful a corner.

"Hm!" he said, clearing his throat and locking the door.

Now he began leisurely to take off his clothes, but stopped firstwith his coat, and tucked it along the crack under the door.  Hisvest he arranged in the same place.  His old wet, cracked hat helaid softly upon the table.  Then he pulled off his shoes and laydown.

It seemed as if he thought a while, for now he arose and turnedthe gas out, standing calmly in the blackness, hidden from view.After a few moments, in which he reviewed nothing, but merelyhesitated, he turned the gas on again, but applied no match.Even then he stood there, hidden wholly in that kindness which isnight, while the uprising fumes filled the room.  When the odourreached his nostrils, he quit his attitude and fumbled for thebed.  "What's the use?" he said, weakly, as he stretched himselfto rest.

And now Carrie had attained that which in the beginning seemedlife's object, or, at least, such fraction of it as human beingsever attain of their original desires.  She could look about onher gowns and carriage, her furniture and bank account.  Friendsthere were, as the world takes it--those who would bow and smilein acknowledgment of her success.  For these she had once craved.Applause there was, and publicity--once far off, essentialthings, but now grown trivial and indifferent.  Beauty also--hertype of loveliness--and yet she was lonely.  In her rocking-chairshe sat, when not otherwise engaged--singing and dreaming.

Thus in life there is ever the intellectual and the emotionalnature--the mind that reasons, and the mind that feels.  Of onecome the men of action--generals and statesmen; of the other, thepoets and dreamers--artists all.

As harps in the wind, the latter respond to every breath offancy, voicing in their moods all the ebb and flow of the ideal.

Man has not yet comprehended the dreamer any more than he has theideal.  For him the laws and morals of the world are undulysevere.  Ever hearkening to the sound of beauty, straining forthe flash of its distant wings, he watches to follow, wearyinghis feet in travelling.  So watched Carrie, so followed, rockingand singing.

And it must be remembered that reason had little part in this.Chicago dawning, she saw the city offering more of lovelinessthan she had ever known, and instinctively, by force of her moodsalone, clung to it.  In fine raiment and elegant surroundings,men seemed to be contented.  Hence, she drew near these things.Chicago, New York; Drouet, Hurstwood; the world of fashion andthe world of stage--these were but incidents.  Not them, but thatwhich they represented, she longed for.  Time proved therepresentation false.

Oh, the tangle of human life!  How dimly as yet we see.  Here wasCarrie, in the beginning poor, unsophisticated.  emotional;responding with desire to everything most lovely in life, yetfinding herself turned as by a wall.  Laws to say: "Be allured,if you will, by everything lovely, but draw not nigh unless byrighteousness." Convention to say: "You shall not better yoursituation save by honest labour." If honest labour beunremunerative and difficult to endure; if it be the long, longroad which never reaches beauty, but wearies the feet and theheart; if the drag to follow beauty be such that one abandons theadmired way, taking rather the despised path leading to herdreams quickly, who shall cast the first stone? Not evil, butlonging for that which is better, more often directs the steps ofthe erring.  Not evil, but goodness more often allures thefeeling mind unused to reason.

Amid the tinsel and shine of her state walked Carrie, unhappy.As when Drouet took her, she had thought: "Now I am lifted intothat which is best"; as when Hurstwood seemingly offered her thebetter way: "Now am I happy." But since the world goes its waypast all who will not partake of its folly, she now found herselfalone.  Her purse was open to him whose need was greatest.  Inher walks on Broadway, she no longer thought of the elegance ofthe creatures who passed her.  Had they more of that peace andbeauty which glimmered afar off, then were they to be envied.

Drouet abandoned his claim and was seen no more.  Of Hurstwood'sdeath she was not even aware.  A slow, black boat setting outfrom the pier at Twenty-seventh Street upon its weekly errandbore, with many others, his nameless body to the Potter's Field.

Thus passed all that was of interest concerning these twain intheir relation to her.  Their influence upon her life isexplicable alone by the nature of her longings.  Time was whenboth represented for her all that was most potent in earthlysuccess.  They were the personal representatives of a state mostblessed to attain--the titled ambassadors of comfort and peace,aglow with their credentials.  It is but natural that when theworld which they represented no longer allured her, itsambassadors should be discredited.  Even had Hurstwood returnedin his original beauty and glory, he could not now have alluredher.  She had learned that in his world, as in her own presentstate, was not happiness.

Sitting alone, she was now an illustration of the devious ways bywhich one who feels, rather than reasons, may be led in thepursuit of beauty.  Though often disillusioned, she was stillwaiting for that halcyon day when she would be led forth amongdreams become real.  Ames had pointed out a farther step, but onand on beyond that, if accomplished, would lie others for her.It was forever to be the pursuit of that radiance of delightwhich tints the distant hilltops of the world.

Oh, Carrie, Carrie! Oh, blind strivings of the human heart!Onward onward, it saith, and where beauty leads, there itfollows.  Whether it be the tinkle of a lone sheep bell o'er somequiet landscape, or the glimmer of beauty in sylvan places, orthe show of soul in some passing eye, the heart knows and makesanswer, following.  It is when the feet weary and hope seems vainthat the heartaches and the longings arise.  Know, then, that foryou is neither surfeit nor content.  In your rocking-chair, byyour window dreaming, shall you long, alone.  In your rocking-chair, by your window, shall you dream such happiness as you maynever feel.

The End XFIRMZ
